---
date: 2006-07-03T11:42:40-08:00
title: "Bako National Park and Why There Are No Snakes in Borne"
type: post
isPublic: false
---

There are no snakes in Borneo. Or, that’s what Julie kept telling
herself anyway as we neared Bako National Park on the island of Borneo.
We sped along in a little riverboat, at the mouth of the South China
Sea, aiming for a tiny patch of sand just visible in the distance—the
entry point for the park.

<a href="/images/85.jpg" class="thickbox"
title="A trail in Bako National Park"><img
src="http://somedaynevercomes.com/images/85t.jpg" /></a><span class="caption">A
trail in Bako National Park</span>

The previous day, not knowing what we were doing in Kuching – or how we
had ended up there for that matter – we had made the unthinkable
decision to visit the Information Center. Normally, Information Centers
are a thing to avoid; they inevitably will point you to the most
sanitized experience possible for the highest price imaginable. But – we
had finally come to admit – we were lost—and damn hot too.

In the past few days it had gone from hot to hotter to hottest
to—whatever comes after hottest. How hot? Well, truthfully, I have no
idea for I still haven’t mastered the whole celsius thing. But a far
more accurate way to gauge the heat than any thermometer is quite
simple: the locals. Specifically, the old locals. Go to any place in the
world, and the locals, the one’s sitting on a parkbench in the shade or
inside a favorite restaurant, will inevitably talk about the weather.
And what were they saying here in Kuching? *It’s hot*. When you are two
degrees North of the equator and the locals are complaining about the
heat, it’s safe to say it is, in fact, hot.

Standing on the sidewalk with the heat bearing down on us, facing our
existential plight of *what we were doing?*, *how had we gotten here?*,
and, most importantly, *why?*, the Information Center stood like a white
beacon of hope. (I use the word white here not to represent some western
ideal of beauty, but simply because the Information Center is, in fact,
an old white building). And far more important than the color of the
building is the simple fact that it is air-conditioned. The cold air was
oozing out of the old white walls, fighting it’s way through the heat
and humidity, in a slow, epic battle to reach the air that surrounded us
where we stood.

And so we entered the Information Center because we were lost and
because we were hot, though not particularly in that order. The sweat on
my back, upon entering, turned frigid in a matter of seconds as it was
greeted by the cold air. (You can never be comfortable in these parts of
the world. You are either sweating from oppressive heat and humidity or
shivering from over-zealous air-conditioning. There is no middle
ground). We scanned the walls for several moments, studying the maps of
Sarawak that had been tacked up along with the bright orange and pink
computer pages with fuzzy type containing suggested itineraries: River
rafting. Longhouse visit. Giant caves. Rainforest. I had to admit,
Borneo seemed to have a lot going for it.

“Where do you want to go”?, the woman at the counter asked, with all the
enthusiasm of a rock.

“Bako National Park”, we said. Having digested all the information on
the walls, we had decided on Bako National Park as the place to start.
Only one and a half hours travel time from Kuching promised ancient
rainforest with excellent hiking, a wide-variety of unique plants, and
the extremely rare proboscis monkeys. Accomodations for a private
bedroom with a fan were only $40/ringit per night, so the price wasn’t
bad either.

“How many nights”? she replied, if at all possible, even less
enthusiastically than her last question.

“Two nights”, we replied. And with that, we were off. Well… almost.
After another night in Kuching, an early morning bus-ride to Bako
village, and a boat ride up river and into the South China Sea we were
off at which point we found ourselves dropped on the outskirts of the
jungle on a white sand beach, where we then hauled ourselves and our
backpacks up the sand and to the park ranger’s office.

<a href="/images/88.jpg" class="thickbox"
title="Boats to Bako National Park"><img
src="http://somedaynevercomes.com/images/88t.jpg" /></a><span class="caption">Boats
to Bako National Park</span>

<a href="/images/83.jpg" class="thickbox"
title="A beach in Bako National Park"><img
src="http://somedaynevercomes.com/images/83t.jpg" /></a><span class="caption">A
beach in Bako National Park</span>

Here it must be said, in all fairness to Julie, that she suffers from
extreme bouts of
[Ophidiophobia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ophidiophobia)- fear of
snakes. So having been dropped off by a riverboat on a tiny patch of
jungle on the island of Borneo was, admittedly, intimidating.
Nevertheless, she’s a tough girl and she loves the outdoors, so she was
determined not to let a little fear of snakes stop her from experiencing
the rainforest. And so there she was, looking at a poster pinned to the
wall, one of the one’s you often see in state and national parks that
have the cute little illustrations of plants and animals your likely to
see. Her eyes made her way down the poster, looking with excitement at
the illustration of the proboscis monkey that live in the park, and with
determined understanding at the various plants unique to the area,
including a good variety of pitcher plants. (She’s good with plants. Had
math not frightened her off, she would have made a damn fine biologist).
And yet, as her eyes came to the bottom of the poster, there was a
decided look of terror as they rested upon the two bottom-most
illustrations: one portraying a cobra in it’s classic strike pose, the
other being a pit viper wrapping itself around a tree.

“There are no snakes in Borneo”, Julie declared to me as we exited the
ranger’s office. It wasn’t so much that she was denying the existence of
snakes in Borneo as it was that she was determined that, should she deny
it long enough, there would, in fact, cease to be snakes in Borneo. It
was a simple issue of mind over matter for her, and through sheer will
and determination, she would deny snakes out of existence. On Borneo at
least.

The park rangers had been friendly and informative. They gave us the
run-down on the trails as well as the general practicalities of the
camp. Breakfast is served every morning from 7-9am, lunch from 12-2pm,
and dinner from 6-7:30pm. “Watch out for the monkeys when you’re
eating”, one ranger had said, “they’ll grab your food if you don’t pay
attention”.

Check-in time for our room wasn’t until 2pm, and it being only 10am, we
had decided to set off on a short hike to get a taste of what the park
offered. We left our oversized backpacks in the storage room and headed
off.

We started off our jungle adventure with a nice easy 3km trail that led
to a nearby beach. The trails in Bako National Park are extremely
well-marked. Every trail has a color-code (white-red, solid white, solid
red, etc.), and this color-coding is painted every 30 meters or so on
the nearest tree trunk or rock. Short of being color-blind, you’d have
to try to get lost. One of the remarkable things about Bako National
Park is that, within it’s relatively small 27 sq km boundary, you can
experience 7 of Borneo’s main vegetation types. This particular hike
started off on a long, wooden walkway that brought you through the
mangroves that fringe the coast. Here, we were told by the ranger, is
one of the best places to see the proboscis monkey. Morning and evening
time are best, when they are feeding. As it was getting close to 11am,
there were no monkey to be seen in the trees, so we pushed onwards,
entering a deeper patch of trees. A short while later, we found
ourselves emerging from the canopy of trees and into the sun, the white
sand reflecting brightly as we came out of the shade. The beach was
nice. There wasn’t much to it besides a few logs and some nice sandstone
formations, but what more can you expect from a deserted beach in
Borneo?

Surprisingly, there was someone else on the beach, a local, who
approached us and offered us a boat ride around the point for
$30/ringit. Apparently there were some nice rocks to see, and another
deserted beach. We declined politely and soon set off back to camp for
lunch.

Lunch was held mess-hall style in a building adjacent to the ranger
station. Besides rice, there was chow mien, some steamed vegetables,
chicken, fried eggs, and more. The food wasn’t bad, but wasn’t great
either, but seeing as it was the only option, we helped ourselves to
generous portions and went and grabbed a seat on the eating deck to dig
in.

I hadn’t really payed much attention to the ranger when he had warned us
about the monkeys. I’d been in Bali for two months, they had macaques
there—hell, one had even [pissed on my hat in
Ubud](/article/a-walk-around-ubud). So it was with more surprise than
fright that I looked up, moments after sitting down, to see, a mere 6
inches from my face, a momma macaque, standing on the table, with a baby
clutching to her stomach. For a few seconds I was even amused, but that
quickly ended as she approached closer and, without even a hint of fear,
reached down and swiped a giant handful of chow mien from my plate. Now
the rangers had said not to leave your food unattended, but I was
literally mid-bite when this monkey swooped in. I sat and stared,
stunned. It reminded me of a time when I was about 4 and my parents had
taken me to the San Francisco Zoo. I was sitting happy as could be,
holding a hot dog in my hands that was to be my lunch, when, all of a
sudden, a seagull swooped down and took the hot dog right out of my
hands, thus making it his lunch, and not mine. At age 4, a hotdog is
particularly nice treat, especially when you’re at the zoo. The event
had been devastating, and went on to spur a life-long hatred of
seagulls. Now, staring eye to eye with a monkey with a handful of chow
mien noodles hanging out of her mouth, I was just stupefied.

And yet, there the monkey stood, staring me directly in the eye, as
unconcerned as could be, taking me back to some forgotten place in time
when a seagull had taken my hotdog and left me feeling utterly helpless
in the universe. It may have been my first true existential crisis, the
point when a man realizes that there are seagulls out there, some of
them may even steal your hotdog, and when they do, nothing or no one is
going to help you. I thought for a moment about screaming insults at the
monkey – or at the seagull, for at this point they were one in the same,
linked in some cosmic way – before I realized how stupid I would look
yelling at a monkey for taking my chow mien and, besides, modern day
science tells us about 4 DNA – and 1 Y chromosome as it were – separate
me from her, so hurling insults at her was really like insulting myself
in a way, and this idea just added to the gravity of the situation.
Somehow, an animal which is both smaller and supposedly dumber than I,
had just stolen my chow mien and was now staring me in the eye, noodles
dangling from her lips, as if saying “what are you gonna do about it?”.
And the answer was not a damn thing. Julie, fortunately, had the
presence of mind to smack the monkey off the table. She’s not good with
snakes, but watch out when it comes to monkeys.

The next morning we were up early. As a man still recovering from the
shock of having his chow mien stolen from him and the questions about
his place in the universe that such an occurrence presents, the only
logical step was to show to myself and everyone else that I was still,
as it were, a man. I was to do this by hiking 7km through the jungle to
what was supposedly a beautiful waterfall in the center of the
rainforest. Julie was right there with me—continuing her quest to deny
snakes out of existence.

Hiking in the rainforest shares something in common with diving: the
slower you go, the more you see. I’m not much of a diver, nor a hiker,
and I think it’s safe to say that for the first 3km of our hike, I saw
nothing, determined as I was to reach our destination. Julie, who is
quite a good diver, and hiker, saw nothing as well. Her hyper-active
imagination, however, coupled with that pesky Ophidiophobia led her to
think that every root – of which there were thousands – was most
certainly a snake. It didn’t help that I kept agreeing with her, musing
just how serpentine looking the roots really were. Every time she
mentioned that a particular root looked like particular snake, I agreed
with her. Every step for her was a deliberate victory in an epic battle
of will taking place just steps behind me. I of course, was completely
oblivious to this and kept imagining some Tolkien-esque moment when one
of the roots would suddenly spring to life, at which point I would chop
it down to size with my trusty Leatherman, saving Julie and at the same
time regaining my sense of worth in the universe.

Forunately for Julie, none of the roots turned to snakes. Alas, we
pressed on. After another hour or so of hiking, Julie altered her snake
strategy a bit- an admirable display and one that demonstrated those 4
extra DNA may just be significant after all. She shifted from straight
denial of snakes and adopted a more zen philosophy towards them that was
to be admired: *If a snake slithers in the rainforest and I don’t see or
hear it, then certainly it doesn’t exist*.

Finally, just before noon, we made it to the waterfall. It was
everything one could hope for in a waterfall in the middle of the
rainforest. The waterfall wasn’t overly dramatic, it was more cozy and
quaint. The water cascaded consistently, yet gently, to a large pool
below. The shores had soft moss growing around the edges, perfect for
sitting and eating lunch. The water was a dark orange – rust colored
almost – giving the water a less than appealing look, but the ranger had
told us the water is extremely clean. The color is simply due to the
high amounts of iron present in the water.

And what do all men do when faced with an existential crisis while
standing beside a waterfall? That’s right, they climb to the top. And
climb to the top I did. After which, I climbed down. Satisfied with my
feat, Julie and I got started on the lunch we had packed: fried rice
with fried egg and some fruit. The combination of lunch and the
tranquility of the environment eased both our minds and after an hour or
so of just hanging out and enjoying the setting, we both were feeling
quite good. Julie, temporarily at least, had forgotten about snakes,
which was good, for I had neglected to tell her that I had in fact, seen
one, a ways off the trail while I had returned from a jaunt down river.
But this only proved the zen attitude had worked, for she had not seen
it, and therefore, it did not exist.

Leaving the waterfall in the early afternoon, I felt a familiar sense of
sadness, one that I often feel when leaving a beautiful place that more
than likely I will never see again. The world is such a big and
beautiful place and you can only see so much in a lifetime.

<a href="/images/82.jpg" class="thickbox"
title="Our quaint little waterfall in the middle of the rainforest"><img
src="http://somedaynevercomes.com/images/82t.jpg" /></a><span class="caption">Our
quaint little waterfall in the middle of the rainforest</span>

We made the hike back to camp at a much more leisurely pace. We stopped
at one point in a semi-dry waterbed and played with the porcelain clay
we kept getting our shoes stuck in. Julie made a female figure and I
made a valiant attempt at a teapot, which ended up looking like
kindergartner’s creation. We left our creations perched on a large rock
in the trail as an omen for the next hikers to find their way to this
part of the world. And with the slow pace we even saw a few things. We
finally caught sight of some [pitcher
plants](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pitcher_plant;) I was both relieved
and disappointed to realize they don’t grow to sizes that allow them to
swallow large mammals. Almost all the way back at camp we caught site of
a giant, male [proboscis
monkey](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Proboscis_Monkey), chewing away at
some leaves in a tree. At this point the trail was still quite high in
the rainforest, so we were nearly at eye-level with the big monkey. The
male proboscis monkey has a distinct feature: a very large nose. In no
small parallel to their cousins, the homosapien (that whole DNA thing
again), the larger the nose the more attractive the male is to the
female. The only problem is, and there simply is no tactful way to say
it—the proboscis monkey nose looks like a big penis. This particular
monkey must have been popular with ladies, for not only did he have a
giant nose, but his actual penis- which he was showing us by sitting
spread eagle in the tree – was fairly large and the color of bright red
lipstick.

<a href="/images/89.jpg" class="thickbox"
title="Monkey showing us his goods (next time we&#39;ll bring the long lens)"><img
src="http://somedaynevercomes.com/images/89t.jpg" /></a><span class="caption">Monkey
showing us his goods (next time we’ll bring the long lens)</span>

<a href="/images/86.jpg" class="thickbox"
title="Pitcher plant with a lunch of a dead ant inside"><img
src="http://somedaynevercomes.com/images/86t.jpg" /></a><span class="caption">Pitcher
plant with a lunch of a dead ant inside</span>

<a href="/images/81.jpg" class="thickbox"
title="Pottery time in the jungle"><img
src="http://somedaynevercomes.com/images/81t.jpg" /></a><span class="caption">Pottery
time in the jungle</span>

As amusing as the monkey was (and as cool as it was to see something so
rare so close-up), the best was yet to come. Only a short while later on
the trail we saw what was hands down my favorite thing of the day: a
[dung beetle](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dung_beetle). I first learned
of the dung beetle while watching a wonderful movie given to us by
Julie’s cousin Trevor called
[Microcosmos](http://www.amazon.com/gp/redirect.html?link_code=ur2&tag=somedayneverc-20&camp=1789&creative=9325&location=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.amazon.com%2Fgp%2Fproduct%2FB0000DZ3BS%2Fqid%3D1151994814%2Fsr%3D8-1%2Fref%3Dpd_bbs_1%3F%255Fencoding%3DUTF8%26v%3Dglance%26n%3D130)
(well worth a watch if you’ve never seen it). The dung beetle, for those
who don’t know, lives by collecting feces and rolling it into a ball,
which he then rolls with him wherever he goes. If he gets hungry, he
simply eats from the source of his labor. The other fascinating thing
about dung beetles is that they are *always* determined to walk in a
straight line. No matter what obstacle stands in their way – be it a
rock, a root, or tree – they will continue to persevere until they have
gotten themselves and their ball of dung up and over the obstacle.
Watching this dung beetle struggle valiantly to get his ball of dung up
and over a particularly nasty root was a thing of beauty. The dung
beetle is truly a poetic existence, for he knows exactly his place in
the universe, even if it is rolling around a giant ball of shit.

<a href="/images/87.jpg" class="thickbox"
title="Poetic journey of the dung beetle continues"><img
src="http://somedaynevercomes.com/images/87t.jpg" /></a><span class="caption">Poetic
journey of the dung beetle continues</span>

As for Julie, she never did see a snake, proving once and for all, there
are no snakes in Borneo.

#### <span id="comment">Comments</span>

<a
href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/bako-national-park-and-why-there-are-no-snakes-in-borneo#c000153"
id="c000153">1</a>  
<a href="mailto:lconragan@hotmail.com" rel="nofollow">Dad</a>

Jul 4, 02:34 AM

hmm, interesting then and now juxtaposition Kai, sure there weren’t some
of the local blue mushrooms in your breakfast…?

And I never would have thought of Julie as a monkey smacker, believe
there are self help groups for this.

great read, keep the photos coming, look forward to the next chapter….

love,

Dad

<a
href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/bako-national-park-and-why-there-are-no-snakes-in-borneo#c000154"
id="c000154">2</a>  
<a href="mailto:gardenergeorge@comcast.net" rel="nofollow">George</a>

Jul 4, 03:46 AM

Oh how I remember the hot dog/ sea gull incident as if it were
yesterday. Nice of Julie to defend your manhood! The rain forest looks
great. The pitcher plant is wonderful. Was there a variety in the colors
and sizes of the plants? Looked up the dive spot you are going to –
unbelievable. Can’t wait for more. Love – George

<a
href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/bako-national-park-and-why-there-are-no-snakes-in-borneo#c000155"
id="c000155">3</a>  
<a href="mailto:dianne@palcare.org" rel="nofollow">Dianne</a>

Jul 4, 01:17 PM

A great read! Excited about the next diving adventures. I tried to
protect you from trauma with such slow healing scars. I’ll be sure to
have hot dogs in the frig on your return. Love, Dianne

<a
href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/bako-national-park-and-why-there-are-no-snakes-in-borneo#c000156"
id="c000156">4</a>  
<a href="mailto:kmorange@coastal.ca.gov" rel="nofollow">Katie</a>

Jul 5, 03:56 AM

What a great post! Julie swatting the chow mein monkey… hehehee!
Picturing it is too fun. Missed you both on the 4th of July. My Santa
Cruz 4ths aren’t the same without you.

Love, K

<a
href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/bako-national-park-and-why-there-are-no-snakes-in-borneo#c000157"
id="c000157">5</a>  
<a href="http://www.somedaynevercomes.com" rel="nofollow">Kai</a>

Jul 6, 06:26 PM

Mushrooms? Hmm… so that’s what those things were on the side of the
trail I kept munching on.

<a
href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/bako-national-park-and-why-there-are-no-snakes-in-borneo#c000158"
id="c000158">6</a>  
<a href="http://www.somedaynevercomes.com" rel="nofollow">Julie</a>

Jul 6, 06:32 PM

As for pitcher plants…

We saw two distinct kinds: the one pictured above (we also say some pink
one’s of that same type), and a second one which was longer and had a
bigger lid to snare things.

We called a local ranger station and word has it that a
[rafflesia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rafflesia_arnoldii) flower –
the largest blooming flower in the world – will be blooming in a week or
so. We’re hoping to get a look at it but word has it they can be elusive
to find (not to mention they allegedly smell like rotting flesh).

<a
href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/bako-national-park-and-why-there-are-no-snakes-in-borneo#c000159"
id="c000159">7</a>  
<a href="mailto:emilykavila@yahoo.com" rel="nofollow">Emily</a>

Jul 7, 03:33 AM

Up close and personal with the monkeys, finding some long lost relatives
are we? Actually the macaque incident reminds me of the squirrels in
Yosemite; I’ve seen them eat french fries out of peoples hands. Guess
finding an easy meal relates to many species in the animal kingdom (of
course the taqueria a block from my house where they know my name
doesn’t count).  
I hope to see better (not X rated) pics of the proboscis monkey. You are
very lucky to be seeing such rare creatures, even if they do piss on you
and steal your food (hmmm Kai, i don’t hear Julie getting any monkey
abuse…). I hope you get to see the flower too, i’ve heard it’s amazing.
Carnivorous plants scare me, there is just something backwards about
that. I know there is one out there getting tired of ants and moving up
to humans.

<a
href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/bako-national-park-and-why-there-are-no-snakes-in-borneo#c000160"
id="c000160">8</a>  
<a href="http://www.somedaynevercomes.com" rel="nofollow">Julie</a>

Jul 7, 02:03 PM

Unfortunately, our camera does not have a long enough lens to get good
pictures of the probiscus monkeys. Sorry, no one can see how well hung
the monkeys were!

<a
href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/bako-national-park-and-why-there-are-no-snakes-in-borneo#c000161"
id="c000161">9</a>  
<a href="mailto:marydolan@gmail.com" rel="nofollow">mary</a>

Jul 8, 05:59 AM

i love it!

<a
href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/bako-national-park-and-why-there-are-no-snakes-in-borneo#c000162"
id="c000162">10</a>  
<a href="mailto:ccarter5@dc.rr.com" rel="nofollow">Aunt Linda
(Weird)</a>

Jul 10, 07:10 AM

After I read your comments, I looked up the probiscus monkey to get a
better view….they are strange but they probably think the same about
us.  
I have read about that stinky flower. I hope you get to see it..and
smell it.

<a
href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/bako-national-park-and-why-there-are-no-snakes-in-borneo#c000163"
id="c000163">11</a>  
<a href="mailto:kkbal@att.net" rel="nofollow">Katie B.</a>

Jul 10, 04:22 PM

John and I are truly enjoying your journey. Enjoy it all & thank you!

<a
href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/bako-national-park-and-why-there-are-no-snakes-in-borneo#c000385"
id="c000385">12</a>  
<a href="http://www.sarawaktourism.com" rel="nofollow">Tan</a>

Apr 9, 01:07 AM

Another great post again! The monkeys are very naugthy and not scared of
strangers. :) Anyway, there are snakes in Bako and the most common snake
that you can see in Bako is called Green Pit Viper. It is not easy to
see because they don’t move much n they stay very quiet on the green
leaves or branches. :) So Julie you are lucky…ehehe

<a
href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/bako-national-park-and-why-there-are-no-snakes-in-borneo#c000433"
id="c000433">13</a>  
<a href="mailto:marksmith25@hotmail.com" rel="nofollow">mark</a>

Mar 27, 01:53 AM

just been in kabuh national park and came face to face with a big
cobra…scary but thrilling, i was close to standing on it, glad i didnt,
great read thou, i had to tell this as im on a buzz

#### Locations

- [Borneo](http://somedaynevercomes.com/category/Borneo/)
- [China](http://somedaynevercomes.com/category/China/)
- [Hawai’i](http://somedaynevercomes.com/category/Hawaii/)
- [Hong Kong](http://somedaynevercomes.com/category/Hong-Kong/)
- [Indonesia](http://somedaynevercomes.com/category/Indonesia/)
- [Malaysia](http://somedaynevercomes.com/category/Malaysia/)
- [Philippines](http://somedaynevercomes.com/category/Philippines/)
- [Singapore](http://somedaynevercomes.com/category/Singapore/)
- [Thailand](http://somedaynevercomes.com/category/Thailand/)

#### Topics

- [Books](http://somedaynevercomes.com/category/Books/)
- [Planning](http://somedaynevercomes.com/category/planning/)
- [Site News](http://somedaynevercomes.com/category/Site-News/)

### Recent Entries

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/where-have-we-been"
rel="bookmark">Where have we been?</a>  
<span class="date">Thursday October 11, 2007</span> / <a
href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/where-have-we-been#comment"
class="comments_invite">Comments</a> \[6\]

<a
href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/the-philippines-and-idc-training"
rel="bookmark">The Philippines and IDC Training</a>  
<span class="date">Sunday June 24, 2007</span> / <a
href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/the-philippines-and-idc-training#comment"
class="comments_invite">Comments</a> \[9\]

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/forward"
rel="bookmark">Forward</a>  
<span class="date">Thursday May 24, 2007</span> /
<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/forward#comment"
class="comments_invite">Comments</a> \[15\]

<a
href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/living-and-diving-in-semporna"
rel="bookmark">Living and Diving in Semporna</a>  
<span class="date">Thursday February 1, 2007</span> / <a
href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/living-and-diving-in-semporna#comment"
class="comments_invite">Comments</a> \[27\]

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/semporna-revisited"
rel="bookmark">Semporna Revisited</a>  
<span class="date">Sunday December 10, 2006</span> / <a
href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/semporna-revisited#comment"
class="comments_invite">Comments</a> \[21\]

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/books/travel-reading-list"
rel="bookmark">Travel Reading List</a>  
<span class="date">Thursday November 23, 2006</span> /
<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/books/travel-reading-list#comment"
class="comments_invite">Comments</a> \[8\]

<a
href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/throw-momma-from-the-train"
rel="bookmark">Throw Momma From the Train</a>  
<span class="date">Tuesday November 14, 2006</span> / <a
href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/throw-momma-from-the-train#comment"
class="comments_invite">Comments</a> \[9\]

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/beyond-shangri-la"
rel="bookmark">Beyond Shangri-La</a>  
<span class="date">Monday October 30, 2006</span> /
<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/beyond-shangri-la#comment"
class="comments_invite">Comments</a> \[16\]

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/catching-up"
rel="bookmark">Catching Up</a>  
<span class="date">Tuesday September 26, 2006</span> /
<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/catching-up#comment"
class="comments_invite">Comments</a> \[9\]

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/yixing"
rel="bookmark">Yixing</a>  
<span class="date">Monday September 18, 2006</span> /
<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/yixing#comment"
class="comments_invite">Comments</a> \[14\]

##### <img src="/media/interface/rss-icon.gif"

style="vertical-align: middle; margin: -1px 4px 3px 0" width="16"
height="16" />Subscribe Via:  [RSS](http://www.somedaynevercomes.com/rss/ "xml_feed_title") or [Atom](http://www.somedaynevercomes.com/atom/ "xml_feed_title")

### Latest Photos

All Photos and Content © Kai Conragan and Julie Brookman. All Rights
Reserved.  
If you are interested in using any photos or stories from this website,
please don't hesitate to [contact
us](mailto:info@somedaynevercomes.com "Send Us An Email"), we're quite
friendly.
