---
date: 2006-09-18T11:42:40-08:00
title: "Yixing"
type: post
isPublic: false
---

The bus comes to a sudden stop along the side of the freeway and the
driver motions for us to get off. Confused, we look around and, not
seeing anything, remain seated. After more prodding, however, the driver
convinces us to grab our packs and get off the bus.

<a href="/images/203.jpg" class="thickbox" title="Pots and Bikes"><img
src="http://somedaynevercomes.com/images/203t.jpg" /></a><span class="caption">Pots
and Bikes</span>

Standing on the side of highway, cars whizzing past, we’re still
confused. This isn’t where we expected to be dropped. A grungy bus
station perhaps, but the side of the road? The bus conductor gets off
with us and leads us to a smaller bus that is coming to a stop behind
ours. The conductor motions for us to board, which we do, somewhat
hesitantly. On board, this bus is filled with people who appear to be
coming home from work. Stares ensue, and lots of them. No matter
though—after three weeks traveling through China, we’ve gotten used to
being stared at like we have a third eye in our forehead. You just have
to learn to accept the stares for what they are: curiosity, not
animosity. Besides, the stares are usually accompanied with smile.

As the bus pulls back onto the highway, we settle back into our seats,
resigned to accept whatever comes next. Outside the window, large
sculptural rocks lie on the side of the road for sale—an essential in
any Chinese garden. Red clay roof tiles and oversized ceramic pots of
dark purple and yellow pass by as well. And, of course, what catches my
eyes the most: teapots, and thousands of them. Teapots are a good thing.
With teapots in sight, we know we can’t be far from our destination.

### Yixing

Yixing is pretty far off of the tourist trail, and for good reason.
There are no awe-inspring temples to look at, famous local dishes to
try, or breathtaking landscapes to marvel at. True, it’s nestled up to
the shores of Taihu Lake, but what charm this affords is currently lost
to a thick layer of grime from incessant demolition and rebuilding. As
you pull into town, canals that run through the city—ones that would
feature old men maneuvering boats with tourists lovingly gazing into
each other’s eyes were this Italy—are lined with rubbish piles and the
only thing floating are plastic bags and other…well, you get the point.
In truth, Yixing has very little interest for the general traveler. In
fact, Yixing barely draws Chinese visitors. Half of the people in China
we told we were coming here, didn’t even know where here was.

So what’s in Yixing? Simple. Clay. Yixing is home to the famous Purple
Clay, or zisha, as it’s called in China. The clay is used for all sorts
of commercial goods, from roof tiles to oversized planters. Where the
clay really shines though, and what has given it it’s reputation, is in
it’s use for making teapots.

### Purple Clay Teapots

Yixing clay is a bit of a wonder material. It comes from an ore found
near Huanglong Mountain, which lies just outside of Yixing. The crude
clay is made by breaking down the ore into powder and mixing it with
water. The clay is unique in that it has an incredible ability to
maintain heat while simultaneously being able to breath—think of it as
the Gore-Tex of clay. Heat retention is due to the fact that the clay is
a relatively slow conductor of heat; breathability is due to the firing
technique. The resulting teapot is one that maintains heat over a
long-period of time—ideal for brewing high temperature teas such black,
oolong, or pu-erh—-that also absorbs the flavor of the tea into the
pores, which acts to season the teapot. In a very real sense, each pot
of tea only gets better. The best Yixing teapots are the ones that have
been through many steepings, and one of the great joys of tea drinking
is watching a teapot season with time. The seasoning also gives a teapot
a rich patina, something that must see with your own eyes and touch with
your own hands to truly be appreciated. It’s not all just for looks
though; well-seasoned teapots unequivocally brew better tea than
unseasoned ones.

For tea enthusiasts, collecting Yixing teapots can be a bit of a love
affair. Even at the time of their origin, noblemen and aristocrats spent
small fortunes building a personal collection. Today, little has
changed. While each brew of tea is ephemeral, a teapot can last a
lifetime. Through use, they become like an old friend and yet, great joy
comes in collecting new ones. The most highly desirable teapots are
those made by master potters, skilled artists who have spent their
entire lifetime perfecting their craft. These teapots cost thousands of
dollars at the low end of the spectrum. And yet, great joy can be had
from brewing tea in a pot that costs as little as $10. Indeed, each
teapot is a piece of art—a miniature sculpture. And what is so
appealing, and so unlike most other art, is that you are encouraged to
interact with it—to hold it, to touch it, to *do* something with it.
That is the most wonderful point: they have a purpose. They are meant to
be used—a perfect blend of form and function. No self-respecting artist
would create a teapot that wasn’t completely functional. A finely
crafted teapot comes down to precision—minute adjustments that create a
teapot that is greater than the sum of its parts. A well-made teapot
fits together so well that, should you hold your finger over the
air-hole on the lid and tip a teapot full of water upside down, not a
drop of water will spill from its spout. Remove your finger from the
air-hole, and hence comes a perfect stream. Replace your finger over the
hole, and the stream stops without a dribble.

And so, we find ourselves in Yixing…

...standing on the side of the road once again to be exact. We got off
our second bus when we saw a large sign that read “hotel” in bold,
sans-serif letters. Regrettably, arriving at the hotel we saw that it
was still under construction and most definitely not open for business.
We tried a smaller hotel we found around the corner, but after 10
minutes of pantomiming and referencing our seemingly useless phrasebook,
were informed they would not accept foreigners as guests. It doesn’t
help that night is falling.

Fortunately, help never seems to be far away for the lost traveler.
Standing on the side of road, contemplating a bus sign that would make a
lovely piece of calligraphy on our wall but at present time is about as
helpful to us as reading tea leaves in order to find a bus that can take
us to another hotel, a friendly Chinese man approaches us on the street
(no doubt chuckling at the site of two lost westerners). He is dressed
in classic Chinese casual business attire: dark slacks, tucked in
collared shirt, and a cell phone tucked inside a holster attached
horizontally to his leather belt. The cell phone holster can be forgiven
though, because the cell phone he has is damn cool—it can actually
translate English to Chinese and vice versa. Through this modern-day
wonder, we tell the man we need a hotel that accepts foreigners and
before we know it he’s whistled down a cab, given the driver
instructions, and we are being whisked off down the street with barely a
chance to say thanks. A few minutes later we pull up to a gigantic hotel
complete with a circular driveway and a bellman to greet us. As we enter
the lobby, we almost turn around; the marble floors and grand piano
suggest a price range beyond ours. Fortunately, Julie is good in such
situations, and she marches right up to the reception counter and asks
for a room. The prices start high—around ¥600––but comes down to just
¥200 without us even having to bargain. *A very special rate*, they tell
us, which just means the hotel is low on guests and they’ll even accept
scraggly travelers such as ourselves because of it. Which is just fine
with us, for entering our room, we are treated to a bathtub (Julie is in
heaven), cute little toiletries, and even a proper sitting area complete
with tables and chairs. A far cry from some of the places we’ve stayed
in to date. Needless to say, we settle in for the night.

*Note, the remainder of this article is written from Julie’s point of
view. Having an actual background in ceramics, this portion of the
experience is far more interesting through her eyes…*

### Dingshan

Ironically, in recent decades the artistry of Yixing teapots has been
most attributed to artists working in Taiwan rather than Yixing. The
teapot masters working in Taiwan import the Yixing clay, electing to
work from the comfort of their own homes rather than here (I don’t
really blame them). Some of this can be attributed to the fact that most
Yixing clay teapots are designed gungfu style—a style well-suited for
oolong tea preparation. Oolong tea is extremely popular in Taiwan, in no
small part because it is grown there, as well as in the neighboring
mainland of China in the Fujian provence. Thus, Yixing teapots are quite
often used there, so it seems like a logical transition (this is, of
course, just speculation).

As if to add insult to injury though, even the teapots from Yixing
aren’t actually made in Yixing; they are, in fact, made in a small
village twenty minutes outside of Yixing called Dingshan.

To call Dingshan a village is a bit of a falsity. Today, it’s hard to
tell where Yixing ends and Dingshan begins—they just sort of blend into
each other in a monochromatic drab of concrete and roadside stores.
Nevertheless, Dingshan is it’s own place, and one with tremendous
ceramics history—5,000 years according to neolithic records. Testament
to the ceramic skill here, the the only other foreigners we meet here
are two Germans seeking expertise in manufacturing a ceramic heating
element for an engine they are designing.

And it’s to Dingshan we come on our first proper day in Yixing. From our
hotel, we board the same local bus from the previous evening, though not
without it’s own set of challenges. The staff at our hotel are
unaccustomed to having guests use the bus. They suggest we hire a driver
for ¥100 instead of the ¥5 a bus costs to get to the same location.
Fortunately, an especially helpful lady at the front desk is kind enough
to walk us to the proper location to be picked up for the bus.

Before coming to Yixing, we were unsure as to how up-close and personal
we would be able to get with the Yixing teapot industry. Buying teapots,
we were sure, would be very easy, and the roadside stands we saw on our
way into town verifies this. Yet, we are equally hoping to get some
first hand knowledge about *how* the teapots are made. In the Western
world, it’s not common for unannounced visitors to show just show up at
an artisan’s studio and expect to be welcomed. We needn’t have worried
though, for less than five minutes after getting off the bus, we find
ourselves standing in a studio watching three such artists fastidious at
work.

As we learn, this particular studio is owned by a husband of and wife,
both of which are at work before us now. The wife is fashioning the body
of a teapot, while the husband is working in excruciating detail on a
spout. The third person is a young guy, who appears our age, and to our
surprise, speaks a little bit of english. He tells us he is a student,
working under the tutelage of the husband and wife. His name is Wu Jiang
Jian and, since he speaks english, we take the opportunity to enquire
more into the making of the teapots.

Contrary to what I thought before, Yixing teapots are not *thrown* on a
wheel; they are actually built by hand. The artists do use a wheel, but
it is an incredibly small, hand-turned one that mainly allows the potter
to work without having to pick up and turn the teapot manually. To help
form the teapot, artists use a variety of self-made tools to shape each
element of the pot—lid, spout, handle, body, etc.—and every step is
accompanied by extensive polishing and smoothing. The tools are made
from a variety of materials include bone, bamboo, hardwood, chopsticks,
and pieces of flexible plastic.

<a href="/images/208.jpg" class="thickbox"
title="Tools of the Trade"><img
src="http://somedaynevercomes.com/images/208t.jpg" /></a><span class="caption">Tools
of the Trade</span>

<a href="/images/199.jpg" class="thickbox"
title="Wu Jiang Jian practicing"><img
src="http://somedaynevercomes.com/images/199t.jpg" /></a><span class="caption">Wu
Jiang Jian practicing his craft.</span>

Catching our eye in particular is a series of teapots—all of the same
design—sitting on a shelf behind Wu Jiang Jian. We ask him about them,
and he says they are teapots he has been practicing making. Both Kai and
I really like the teapots so, curiously, I ask how much they are. This
seems to make him a bit uncomfortable. It’s only a few days later than
we learn why.

The art education system in China is very different than what I have
been exposed to back home. In my education as an artist, I have always
been taught with an emphasis on individualism and creativity. In short,
we are encouraged to develop our creativity, and through that
creativity, to hone our technical skills. In China it is quite the
opposite. Students are taught the technical skills first, often through
mind-numbing repetition. Beginning students—and here I mean students who
have been studying for several years—are forced to recreate established
forms over and over again. They start with the classic teapot shapes,
and fashion thousands of them before they are allowed to move on to the
next one. Only after years of careful refinement and technical mastery
are students encouraged to pursue their own designs. Many students will
apprentice with a master for four or more years, only after to attend
college for a formal art degree.

Having seen both sides, I think there is incredible merit to each. The
technical mastery Chinese students achieve in their chosen art can make
Western work look sloppy in comparison. Alternately, art in it’s truest
sense is a form of expression, and to suppress that for the sake of
technique seems counter-intuitive to it’s purpose. And yet, while the
Chinese method may stifle initial creativity, the skill among students
is very high at a relatively young age.

Wu Jiang Jian has only been working under his teacher for one year. The
teapots sitting on the shelf behind him—which we gathered were his own
design, though this may have been lost in translation—are more what he
considers exercises than finished teapots. Additionally, asking the
price of his teapots before his teacher may have superseded authority a
little bit. At the time, I did not know this. I feel it’s important to
support student artwork, for too many artists are discouraged from
pursuing their art due to the whole can’t-make-a-living reality. In my
own work, I have been encouraged tremendously by people like Diane
Tempest, who runs [Galeria Tempest](http://www.galleriatempest.com/) and
makes it a point to showcase young, emerging artists. In my own way, I
was just trying to do the same.

Wu Jiang Jian consults his teacher over what to do. After some
deliberation, he pulls down a few of the teapots and begins analyzing
them. After careful scrutiny, he selects what feels to be the best one,
offers it to me, and says “I would like to give this to you”. I protest,
saying I’m happy to pay for the teapot, but he refuses any money. He
finds a box on a shelf, gingerly places the teapot inside, and hands it
to me. The gesture literally brings tears to my eyes—he is concerned the
teapot, which is extremely well-made, is unfit to sell, and is instead
offering it to me as a gift. In this day an age, especially while
traveling, we so often encountered people so willing to take advantage
of us to make an extra buck. Kai and I both feel awful we have nothing
else to give him in exchange. Nevertheless, we accept the gift, thank
him profusely, and exchange contact info.

We watch the three work a bit longer and, just after 11AM, they tell us
they are closing for lunch (nice work schedule!). We ask them if they
can recommend a restaurant nearby, the owner says he knows one, and
offers to drive us there. We are happy for the offer, both because it
shows there are no hard feelings with the teacher, plus the fact that,
as we step outside, it is absolutely pouring with rain.

### Getting Our Hands Dirty

After lunch, we find ourselves walking beneath the canopy of buildings
along the street, peaking into shop windows filled with teapots—many of
which are still closed for lunch. In one shop with the lights off, a
woman notices us and, after turning on the lights, opens the door and
invites us in. As is customary in this China, she offers us some oolong
tea, which we gladly accept as we’re both a bit cold and soggy.

After sipping some tea and drying off, we get up to look at the teapots
on display. The work is interesting, with many unique designs. Quite
often, even masters who have been working for many years return to the
same tried and true forms; it’s refreshing to see a bit of variety.
Soon, another boy enters the store, who looks to be our age and, again
to our surprise, speaks a bit of english. After making introductions, we
learn that this boy is another student, who studies under the
shop-owners father. After a bit of conversation, the show-owner mentions
that, if we are interested, we are welcome to have a go at making a
teapot in the back of the shop. When we enquire about the price of such
an offer, she says it’s free.

Free sounds good, so I eagerly seize the opportunity to make something.
I haven’t had my hands dirty since before leaving on this trip (besides
our little porcelain experiment back in [Bako National
Park](http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/bako-national-park-and-why-there-are-no-snakes-in-borneo)),
and it feels absolutely wonderful to get my hands covered in clay.

We begin by watching another young student, who has recently emerged
from a back room, apparently from a nap. He starts by rolling small
amounts of clay—using the palm of his hand—into in cylindrical tubes.
The tubes taper at one end, and after they are rolled, he bends the
tapered end of the cylinder into the shape of a handle. He has us do the
same. Kai and I both repeat his steps, though with less success. My
cylinders turn out too long and pointy, whereas Kai’s aren’t quite
round. After an hour doing this, we both create a few handles that are
decent enough that the student—reluctantly—let’s us move on. I have no
doubt he has spent many months working on the same exercise.

We move next to spouts. These are also fashioned by a rolling a tapered
cylinder, though they are thicker in diameter and more squat. After an
another hour of rolling spout after spout, the student signals us to
stop. He takes all of crude-shaped handles and spouts, and sticks them
in a styrofoam cooler to prevent them from over-drying.

Next, we watch the student make the body of a teapot. He begins by
cutting two perfect circles out of a piece of flattened clay using a
compass-like tool. The clay is flattened using a wooden mallet that is
flat on one side and round on the other. He then makes another flat
piece of clay, this one about 12 inches long by 3 inches wide. After
trimming the edges to make them straight, he turns this piece into a
perfect cylinder by wrapping it around a separate piece of circular
clay. Once the piece of clay is in a cylinder shape, he smoothes the
side, at the same time pushing the clay inward at the top to narrow the
opening (this will become the bottom of the pot). Using some slip, he
attaches one of the circular pieces of clay we cut to the opening. He
then repeats the exact same process to make the bottom of the pot.

<a href="/images/210.jpg" class="thickbox"
title="Our Lopsided Beauties"><img
src="http://somedaynevercomes.com/images/210t.jpg" /></a><span class="caption">Our
Lopsided Beauties</span>

As the day winds to a close, the shop-owner invites us to join them in
their house, which turns out to be directly behind their street-side
shop. We enter the house into a foyer of sorts, which is lined with
elegant white pillars showcasing more teapots—these one’s covered in
glass and far more beautiful than the ones for sale in the shop. We
haven’t seen anything yet, for the women leads us into a room adjacent
to the foyer, where we are greeted by even more teapots.

The room is like a small gallery, with glass displays on three sides,
and inside the displays are some of the most beautiful teapots we have
ever seen: some are shaped like real soccer balls (one has to be taken
out of the case to convince me than it’s not, in fact, real); another is
a mini-sculpture of a mountain scene, complete with small monkeys
roaming the cliffs and boulder-shaped teacups; one features a honeycomb
design complete with a bee adorning the lid of the teapot; even a
beautifully sculpted pumpkin. All are vastly different than any teapot
I’ve ever seen—each a unique piece of art. Many of the pieces displayed
have framed photos and plaques placed nearby, indicating the many expos
they have attended and many awards that have been won. We began to
realize, these people really knew what they were doing. While many of
these teapots are obviously for show, it’s worth pointing out that—no
matter how intricate—everyone is perfectly functional, as is
demonstrated to us.  

<a href="/images/211.jpg" class="thickbox"
title="Cross Section of Honeycomb Teapot"><img
src="http://somedaynevercomes.com/images/211t.jpg" /></a><span class="caption">Cross
Section of the Honeycomb Teapot</span>

<a href="/images/201.jpg" class="thickbox"
title="Jun Lin Gao with a Clay soccer-ball"><img
src="http://somedaynevercomes.com/images/201t.jpg" /></a><span class="caption">That’s
not a real soccer ball she’s holding—it’s made of clay. Jun Lin
Gao.</span>

<a href="/images/202.jpg" class="thickbox"
title="Mountain and Boulders"><img
src="http://somedaynevercomes.com/images/202t.jpg" /></a><span class="caption">
Mountain and Boulders teapot set. We were shown how well this teapot
pours.</span>

At about this time, we get to meet the master potter responsible for
this work. I should say *potters*, for in walks, not only the
shop-owner’s father, but also the father’s wife, who it turns out is a
master potter herself.

The man’s name is Wang Xiao and woman’s name is Jun Lin Gao. Both are
very kind—ever smiling—and happy to show us their work, though neither
speaks a word of english. We are also joined by the student we met
earlier in the day—the one who speaks english—who helps facilitate
conversation. We learn that both of them have been working for roughly
fifty years as potters. The grandfather comes from a family of potters,
and points to a photo on the wall of *his* grandfather sculpting a
teapot in a studio.

Everyone is interested in what Kai and I are doing in China. We explain
to them we love Chinese tea, and are here to learn more about it. This
seems to delight them, and they invite us to come back the following day
for more lessons, which we gladly accept.

### Okra

Day two is little different from day one. The same student has us
continue making spouts and handles, suggesting we need the practice.
This is fine, and we’re happy just to have the experience, but I’m
wanting to see how a teapot is made, from start to finish, so I can go
home and make them myself—however crudely.

This is counter-intuitive to the way our student-teacher has been
taught, and he insists we continue perfecting our handles and spouts.
After we’ve made several dozen, I have to admit even I am feeling bored.
Absent-mindedly, I begin making a piece of okra out of an extra piece of
clay. The clay is beautiful to touch—like porcelin, it is smooth and
without grit or sand, making it easy to shape and smooth. At about the
time I’m working on my okra, the grandma comes, looks at with a smile,
and gives me the thumbs up. I figure, with a thumbs up from Grandma, I
should keep going.

As the day comes to a close, having done little more than fashion spouts
and handles all day, both Kai and I are feeling a little frustrated.
It’s a tough position, as we are so grateful for the kindness the family
has shown us; yet, with our limited time, I’m concerned we won’t get to
see the whole picture. Before going home, we ask Wang Yung if will be
possible to see the remaining steps involved the next, telling her it
will need to be our last day before moving on in our travels. She says
yes, and promises us we’ll see the finished product before we leave.

### In the Hands of a Master

Day three, we arrive early at the studio, eating dumplings for breakfast
on the bus ride from our hotel. When we enter, shortly before 8AM, we
are greeted by everyone already in the studio, including Jun Lin Gao and
Wang Xiao Long, the master potters.

In the back of the store, tools are being arranged on the work bench we
have been using by students, and we soon realize we are going to be
treated to a demonstration by the master potters.

Wang Xiao Long begins, and he does so by repairing the body of the
teapot I had fashioned two days before. This is accomplished by placing
the body on the small hand-wheel and spinning it consistently, while
adding slip to build up the areas that aren’t quite round. Watching him
work is mesmerizing; there’s something to be said for fifty years of
experience.

Next he assembles the lid by forming a dome over a rounded wooden block.
He attaches the finished dome to a round circle using slip. He attaches
a flat, tapered piece of clay—no more than 1/2 inch wide—to the dome,
which serves to prevent the lid from falling of the body when it is
poured.

Before, during, and after each step, tremendous time is spent smoothing
and polishing the clay, mainly using thin, pliable pieces of horn. (I
should also say that Wang Xiao Long usually works in his own studio. He
is working here as a demonstration, and more than once tosses aside a
tool he deems unfit for use.)

<a href="/images/204.jpg" class="thickbox"
title="Artist&#39;s Hands"><img
src="http://somedaynevercomes.com/images/204t.jpg" /></a><span class="caption">Artist’s
Hands. Wang Xiao Long</span>

When Wang Xiao Long if finished with the body, Jun Lin Gao shows us how
to create a spout and handle. We are, of course, familiar with these
steps, but watching her gives a much better sense of how it *should* be
done.

And so the process goes. We watch both Jun Lin Gao and Wang Xiao Long
bring the teapot near to completion over the course of a few hours (they
both repeatedly mention it is being far too quickly, only to humor us.)
When the teapot is nearly finished, Wang Xiao Long looks for a small,
round piece of clay which he will attach to the lid—this is part that is
used to pick up the lid. Jokingly, I pull out the piece of okra I had
fashioned the day before, and hand it to him. He laughs and, considering
it, takes it from and begins examining. He cuts a groove into the
okra—to allow steam to escape—and then attaches it to the lid. Everyone
laughs, including Jun Lin Gao, who says the pot is now finished and, in
our honor, will be painted green. I can’t help but notice how surprised
Wang Xiao’s students look. I think they are used to a much more formal
teacher. Apparently, however, I’ve lightened him up, and proved I can
honkify even a chinese master’s teapot.

<a href="/images/206.jpg" class="thickbox"
title="Wang Xiao Long, Julie, and the finished Okra Teapot."><img
src="http://somedaynevercomes.com/images/206t.jpg" /></a><span class="caption">Wang
Xiao Long, Julie, and the finished Okra Teapot.</span>

**Note…**

More work from the potters we met can be seen
[online](http://www.zishachahu.com), unfortunately the text is only in
Chinese. The pictures of the teapots are worth a visit however: [Wang
Xiao Long](http://www.zishachahu.com/htm/p3.htm) and [Jun Lin
Gao](http://www.zishachahu.com/htm/p4.htm)

**→ More photos for this post can be found on our [Flickr
account](http://flickr.com/photos/kaiconragan/ "Go To Our Flickr Account"):**

<a
href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/kaiconragan/sets/72157594289131152/"
class="flickr-photoset" title="View Photoset"><span>View the
Photos</span></a>

#### <span id="comment">Comments</span>

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/yixing#c000279"
id="c000279">1</a>  
<a href="mailto:kmorange@coastal.ca.gov" rel="nofollow">Katie</a>

Sep 19, 10:00 AM

“Apparently, however, I’ve lightened him up, and proved I can honkify
even a chinese master’s teapot.” I think that has got to be one of the
best lines I’ve ever heard from you. And I can’t help it, I want to
comment on the honeycomb teapot so badly… but I will refrain in order to
keep your blog g-rated.

On a more serious note, your adventures keep getting better and better.
You guys have totally found a grove with this whole travel thing. I am
constantly in awe. Happy 6-month anniversary! Still can’t believe you’ve
been gone that long. Love you both.

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/yixing#c000284"
id="c000284">2</a>  
<a href="mailto:lconragan@hotmail.com" rel="nofollow">Dad</a>

Sep 20, 01:11 AM

another priceless slice of life….pretty soon we’ll all be taking up a
collection to keep you two on the road, just for the entertainment value
of this blog..

FYI – the military in Thailand just took the goverment in a non-violent
coup. Our companiy’s global security team is keeping close tabs as we
have some folks in country, so will keep you posted on what we know, as
that apparently is your next destination.

love,

Dad

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/yixing#c000285"
id="c000285">3</a>  
<a href="mailto:japope1979@hotmail.com" rel="nofollow">Jenny P</a>

Sep 20, 06:17 AM

HAHAHAHA! KATIE! I was thinking the same thing. The. Same. Thing.

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/yixing#c000286"
id="c000286">4</a>  
<a href="mailto:towslee@gearboy.com" rel="nofollow">Jay and Grace</a>

Sep 20, 01:07 PM

went back and looked at the teapot – totally… The. Same. Thing.

best new web meme EVER…

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/yixing#c000287"
id="c000287">5</a>  
<a href="mailto:dianne@palcare.org" rel="nofollow">Dianne</a>

Sep 20, 04:10 PM

I miss you guys so much, but with honkify okra teapots and the stories
that go with them, I’m not sure I could face life without looking
forward to your blog. Love, Dianne

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/yixing#c000288"
id="c000288">6</a>  
<a href="mailto:emilykavila@yahoo.com" rel="nofollow">Emily</a>

Sep 21, 09:21 AM

What does a California girl know about okra? Craving fried chicken and
mash potatoes too? Being able to actually make teapots at the source of
all teapots must have been amazing. You must buy enough tea to last you
a very long time back home, this tea-in-a-bag stuff won’t be drinkable
for ya anymore.

Love the Flickr! And love getting lost in each post as the story of your
new adventure unfolds.

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/yixing#c000289"
id="c000289">7</a>  
<a href="mailto:gardenergeorge@comcast.net" rel="nofollow">George</a>

Sep 22, 02:48 AM

An okra teapot…. hmmmm,,,and to think I just whipped up 12 jars of okra
pickles. I miss you too. Love – GV

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/yixing#c000290"
id="c000290">8</a>  
<a href="mailto:christina_kelso@hotmail.com"
rel="nofollow">Christina</a>

Sep 24, 11:30 AM

tea here now. I’m reading as much as I can and love your stories.

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/yixing#c000291"
id="c000291">9</a>  
<a href="mailto:white@udel.edu" rel="nofollow">Louie</a>

Sep 25, 05:01 AM

does okra tea go good with grits ‘n tomatoes?

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/yixing#c000292"
id="c000292">10</a>  
<a href="mailto:lconragan@hotmail.com" rel="nofollow">Dad</a>

Sep 25, 11:24 AM

Kai,

Feedback from our security org is Thailand remains pretty chill with biz
as usual, so should be good to go…...

looking forward to the next installment of “The Tumbleweeds Honkify
China”!

love,

Dad

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/yixing#c000294"
id="c000294">11</a>  
<a href="mailto:clconragan@hotmail.com" rel="nofollow">Carolina</a>

Sep 26, 04:09 AM

If I had an okra teapoint, I think I could give up coffee (you know how
much I love coffee). This was very fascinating about the clay and how
the teapots are made – the graciousness of the people are wonderful,
too.

Love,

Mom

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/yixing#c000295"
id="c000295">12</a>  
<a href="mailto:cssc@sauln.com" rel="nofollow">Cindy</a>

Sep 26, 11:20 AM

Sorry that it took so long for me to actually start reading your blog,
but now I’m hooked!

I can hardly wait to read about how you “honkify” the next stop.

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/yixing#c000298"
id="c000298">13</a>  
<a href="mailto:hopeaholic@mac.com" rel="nofollow">parker</a>

Oct 2, 03:04 AM

only you and julie would be in china and have enough okkie/honky in you
to make an okra teapot! wish i was there! in honor of that i think me
and dad are gonna go see Devil Makes Three this weekend before we take
off for costa rica… i miss you both sooooooooooo much and cant wait for
you guys to bring one of those tables home! hope all is well  
love  
parker

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/yixing#c000377"
id="c000377">14</a>  
<a href="http://www.cybersoek.nl/def/rudolf.html" rel="nofollow">ru</a>

Mar 2, 07:56 AM

Could you help me on this one:  
I always thought a real yixing teapot does not have a hole in the lid. I
even have one myself without a hole.  
Since the purpose of a yixing teapot + gongfu-art-of tea is to hold the
tempurature i can’t find a reason to make a hole in the lid. If you want
to pour the tea just raise the lid a tiny bit.  
But on ebay etc i see yixing-zisha lid with holes in it. What’s wrong
with my pre-supposing?  
With many compliments for the travelogue.

#### Locations

- [Borneo](http://somedaynevercomes.com/category/Borneo/)
- [China](http://somedaynevercomes.com/category/China/)
- [Hawai’i](http://somedaynevercomes.com/category/Hawaii/)
- [Hong Kong](http://somedaynevercomes.com/category/Hong-Kong/)
- [Indonesia](http://somedaynevercomes.com/category/Indonesia/)
- [Malaysia](http://somedaynevercomes.com/category/Malaysia/)
- [Philippines](http://somedaynevercomes.com/category/Philippines/)
- [Singapore](http://somedaynevercomes.com/category/Singapore/)
- [Thailand](http://somedaynevercomes.com/category/Thailand/)

#### Topics

- [Books](http://somedaynevercomes.com/category/Books/)
- [Planning](http://somedaynevercomes.com/category/planning/)
- [Site News](http://somedaynevercomes.com/category/Site-News/)

### Recent Entries

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/where-have-we-been"
rel="bookmark">Where have we been?</a>  
<span class="date">Thursday October 11, 2007</span> / <a
href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/where-have-we-been#comment"
class="comments_invite">Comments</a> \[6\]

<a
href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/the-philippines-and-idc-training"
rel="bookmark">The Philippines and IDC Training</a>  
<span class="date">Sunday June 24, 2007</span> / <a
href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/the-philippines-and-idc-training#comment"
class="comments_invite">Comments</a> \[9\]

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/forward"
rel="bookmark">Forward</a>  
<span class="date">Thursday May 24, 2007</span> /
<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/forward#comment"
class="comments_invite">Comments</a> \[15\]

<a
href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/living-and-diving-in-semporna"
rel="bookmark">Living and Diving in Semporna</a>  
<span class="date">Thursday February 1, 2007</span> / <a
href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/living-and-diving-in-semporna#comment"
class="comments_invite">Comments</a> \[27\]

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/semporna-revisited"
rel="bookmark">Semporna Revisited</a>  
<span class="date">Sunday December 10, 2006</span> / <a
href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/semporna-revisited#comment"
class="comments_invite">Comments</a> \[21\]

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/books/travel-reading-list"
rel="bookmark">Travel Reading List</a>  
<span class="date">Thursday November 23, 2006</span> /
<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/books/travel-reading-list#comment"
class="comments_invite">Comments</a> \[8\]

<a
href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/throw-momma-from-the-train"
rel="bookmark">Throw Momma From the Train</a>  
<span class="date">Tuesday November 14, 2006</span> / <a
href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/throw-momma-from-the-train#comment"
class="comments_invite">Comments</a> \[9\]

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/beyond-shangri-la"
rel="bookmark">Beyond Shangri-La</a>  
<span class="date">Monday October 30, 2006</span> /
<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/beyond-shangri-la#comment"
class="comments_invite">Comments</a> \[16\]

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/catching-up"
rel="bookmark">Catching Up</a>  
<span class="date">Tuesday September 26, 2006</span> /
<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/catching-up#comment"
class="comments_invite">Comments</a> \[9\]

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/yixing"
rel="bookmark">Yixing</a>  
<span class="date">Monday September 18, 2006</span> /
<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/yixing#comment"
class="comments_invite">Comments</a> \[14\]

##### <img src="/media/interface/rss-icon.gif"

style="vertical-align: middle; margin: -1px 4px 3px 0" width="16"
height="16" />Subscribe Via:  [RSS](http://www.somedaynevercomes.com/rss/ "xml_feed_title") or [Atom](http://www.somedaynevercomes.com/atom/ "xml_feed_title")

### Latest Photos

All Photos and Content © Kai Conragan and Julie Brookman. All Rights
Reserved.  
If you are interested in using any photos or stories from this website,
please don't hesitate to [contact
us](mailto:info@somedaynevercomes.com "Send Us An Email"), we're quite
friendly.
