---
date: 2006-09-01T11:42:40-08:00
title: "Shanghai"
type: post
isPublic: false
---

A sudden lurch in my seat as the train pulls out of the station. It’s
night. The train picks up speed and the lights from the houses outside
the window begin to morph into a stream of warm light.

<a href="/images/167.jpg" class="thickbox" title="Dining hall car."><img
src="http://somedaynevercomes.com/images/167t.jpg" /></a><span class="caption">Dining
hall car.</span>

The dining car we’re seated in feels like a set out of an old movie: The
windows from which I look out are framed by curtains that were once
white but now are tinged yellow from years of smoke-filled nights just
such as this one. Even now, several Chinese men—presumably employees on
the train from their matching shirts—sit smoking their cigarettes in
solitude at various tables throughout the car, each preferring the
comfort of their own thoughts to conversation. The tables have white
linen cloths, which never seem to quite sit flat on the table surface
and the extra fabric gets bunched up under your elbows when you lean
forward. Each table is adorned with a red carnation carefully placed in
a white vase near the window. Used condiment containers surround each
vase—soy sauce, chili sauce, salt and pepper, tooth-pick holders.

A man sitting in a booth across from us is telling us about his autistic
daughter and his wife who has gone crazy because of it. It’s a sad
story, but he’s bought me a round of beers so I’m happy to listen.
Conversation is comfort on a long train ride, and he seems like he could
use someone to talk to anyhow. He lived in Canada for a spell—in the
cold, flat region above Michigan—where he worked at a 7-11 and was
married to a women in what, to him, seems a lifetime ago. He wants to
know why we decided to take a train from Hong Kong to Shanghai when a
flight is only two hours and a train ride is twenty three. We don’t
really have a good answer for this so we give him some long-winded
explanation about wanting to see the country. We’ve given up telling
people this sort of travel is cheaper. Our simple presence in their
country means to them that we are rich, and no amount of explaining will
convince them otherwise. He also wants to know if, back in America, we
still use phrases like *awesome* and *get hammered*. He’s a nice man,
but there’s an underlying tragedy to him that’s hard to escape, helped
in no small part by the fact that he no longer calls his wife “my wife”
but, rather, “the child’s mother”. You get the sense that he asks
himself where things went wrong. He prefers to keep conversation
topical, so we focus on American TV shows. Apparently he spent his time
in North America during the Three’s Company era, and is sad to hear John
Ridder has passed away.

The narrow hallways that connect the train cars are smattered with
passengers seeking retreat from the cramped confines of the rooms. The
halls are no better really—I have to walk at a three-quarter angle to
prevent my shoulders from brushing the walls. Pull-out seats attached to
the the walls offer a place to sit and watch the countryside go by. I
empathize with the in-transit souls who make the halls their confines,
determined as they are to not spend the entirety of the train ride
cooped in a small bed. There’s an unspoken camaraderie here.

The sleeping cars are surprisingly comfortable. Our room has two bunk
beds with surprisingly soft mattresses and two pillows each, all dressed
in soft white sheets. The lower bunks have a table between them and a
thermos full of hot water below it for tea. Again, a red carnation
resting in a white vase. We had hoped for a private room, but as we
showed up at the train station to buy our tickets the same day we were
leaving, only soft sleeper tickets were available. We have been blessed
with an old Chinese couple as bunkmates who are less than happy to be
sharing their car with some young westerners. Upon entering the cabin
for the first time, they both started yelling at us in broken english.
We still had our bags on the floor at their arrival as I was attempting
to hoist Julie’s heavy pack to the upper bunk. They were assigned to the
lower bunks and our bags still being on the floor represented a breach
of territory. The man wears a NY Yankees hat—I tell him I’m a Giants
fan—and has a nose that in no small way resembles a meatball. He waves
his cane at us and sits down heavily the bottom bunk. The woman, we
learn, wears dentures, as we find them soaking in our drinking cup as we
reach for a sip of water later in the night. We’ve affectionately taken
to calling them *Grouchie* and *Slouchie*, although which one is which,
we really can’t say. As grumpy as they are, there is something endearing
to them, and Julie and I promise each other never to end up like them.

We spend most of the train ride drinking tea in the dining car and
talking, or listening to [A Short History of Nearly
Everything](http://phobos.apple.com/WebObjects/MZStore.woa/wa/viewAlbum?id=3255416&s=143441)
on our iPod. There’s a certain tranquility when traveling by train that
has been lost to air travel. With nowhere to go and not much to do, you
allow yourself to sit back and surrender to the moment.

### Shanghai

Stepping out of the train station—and setting foot in mainland China for
the first time—we are greeted with a heat I didn’t know was possible.
The air is thick and has a weight that reminds me of a wet, wool
blanket. The square in front of the train station is alive with people
walking in all directions, and I’m unable to discern any pattern to it.
A group of people stand to our left, creating a lot of energy. From the
confines of the circle, a man emerges, his hand clasped over his left
eye with blood streaming from his forehead. Another man is being
constrained by the crowd. I don’t want to stick around long enough to
see who won the fight, so I grab Julie by the arm and lead her in the
opposite direction.

A few blocks later, we seek relief from the heat in the air-conditioned
lobby of a hotel—Julie has to use the bathroom. Several minutes of
pantomiming later, the staff points her in the right direction. It’s a
two-star rated establishment—all hotels must be approved by the Chinese
tourism board—and with a double room costing ¥218, plus the prospect of
more wandering with heavy packs in the oppressive heat, we decide this
hotel is as good as any.

A shower clears the cobwebs and makes us feel human again. Despite the
long train ride, we’re both feeling quite rested as at least half of the
journey was spent in some form of sleep, which is good, as we’re
scheduled to meet up with a someone we had met while [diving back in
Borneo](http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/diving-at-pulau-sipadan).
His name is Huang Zhi, he lives in Shanghai and told us he’d be happy to
show us around when we made it China. We sent him an email from Hong
Kong, and he replied telling us to call him upon our arrival in
Shanghai. In many ways, we’d made Shanghai our first stop in China
because of him—a friendly face, and one who speaks english seems a good
way to ease into the country.

In order to call him, we need to find access to the internet as we
forgot to write down his phone number before leaving Hong Kong. Finding
the internet proves challenging, but finally we’re helped by two young
girls who are on vacation in Shanghai and eager to practice their
english.

The internet cafe is filled with teenage-looking boys sitting in front
of computer monitors wearing oversize headphones. Most of them are
playing “World of Warcraft”, or other such network games. Finding Huang
Zhi’s phone number, we give him a call and he tells us to take a taxi to
his neighborhood. We pass the phone to a chinese-speaking man who writes
down directions to Huang Zhi’s house in Chinese, so we can give them to
the cab driver.

Huang Zhi is 3-D animator, and lives in what seems to be a young, trendy
area in Shanghai. There’s a university nearby, from which the area seems
to have profited with a healthy supply of small restaurants and
boutique-looking shops. Young people ride along the sidewalks and
street, going about the early evening in a peaceful yet purposeful
manner. Huang Zhi meets us on the designated corner and walks us to a
small restaurant, which is across the street from his apartment. The
entrance to the restaurant has a glass floor with fish swimming below.
After making sure it’s alright with us, Huang Zhi orders for everyone,
and has the waitress bring us three tall Tsingtao’s, which taste
amazing. Though cosmopolitan, Shanghai is still polluted by our
standards, and our throats feel scratchy from hot, humid air. The food
arrives one plate at a time, each one seemingly more delicious than the
next. Steamed vegetables, marinated pork, skewered on a stick
shrimp—head’s and all. The highlight is undoubtedly chopped frog, still
simmering in an oily chilly sauce with bell peppers and onions. Eating
frog is a first for both Julie and I. Everyone always says frog tastes
just like chicken; honestly, I think it tastes better. It tastes far
better than any kungpao chicken or sweet and sour pork I’ve had back
home.

<a href="/images/168.jpg" class="thickbox"
title="Frog simmered in chilly oil, bell peppers, and onions."><img
src="http://somedaynevercomes.com/images/168t.jpg" /></a><span class="caption">Frog
simmered in chilly oil, bell peppers, and onions.</span>

### Pearl River

After dinner, Huang Zhi signals a cab and takes us down to what is known
as Pearl River. Here runs the Juangpu river, which bisects the city and
has facilitated trading in Shanghai as far back as 960 AD. In the
1840’s, after the [Opium Wars](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Opium_War),
the British imposed the [Treaty of
Nanking](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Treaty_of_Nanjing) on China, which
forced China to open Shanghai to westerners. A large collection of
colonial buildings sprang up to cater to western interests. The one’s
that survived the Cultural Revolution of the 1960s still stand on the
western bank of the river today. The Chinese government have cleaned the
buildings up, added lights, and now bill them as a tourist attraction,
which is commonly known to Westerners as the Bund.

Directly across the river lies Pudong Xinqu—the new Shanghai. A US$40
billion development project is planned here including an international
airport, modern skyscrapers, and a state-of-the-art container port.
Shanghai is a city of architecture, and nowhere is it more obvious than
here with it’s towering highrises and glimmering billboards. Entire
neighborhoods have been torn down and highrises put in their stead.
Construction—even at night—is incessant, though amazingly unobtrusive as
you walk the streets. On the eastern shore of the river stands Pearl
Tower—the highest tower in Asia and the third tallest in the world
rising 468 meters from the streets of Shanghai. It is a true spectacle
in the nighttime sky; indeed, the entire skyline is a marvel, as the
myriad buildings illuminate the sticky night with a grand display of
neon incandescence. Shanghai is well on its way to becoming a modern
giant. Even now it makes most western cities seem quaint in comparison,
and you get feeling that Shanghai is just getting started. The people
here are proud of their city, and there is an energy within it’s limits
that is palpable.

Huang Zhi has a friend who works as a manager for one of the tourist
ferry services, so he gets us onboard one for free and we take a boat
for a short loop through water, giving us a view of both sides of the
river from one vantage point. Chinese families pose for pictures,
leaning against the boat railings, making sure so as to not block any
important buildings in the background for their snapshots. Huang Zhi,
Julie, and I sit and talk and take in the night.

<a href="/images/169.jpg" class="thickbox"
title="Kai and Huang Zhi in front of Pearl Tower."><img
src="http://somedaynevercomes.com/images/169t.jpg" /></a><span class="caption">Kai
and Huang Zhi in front of Pearl Tower.</span>

<a href="/images/170.jpg" class="thickbox"
title="Shanghai skyline."><img
src="http://somedaynevercomes.com/images/170t.jpg" /></a><span class="caption">Shanghai
skyline.</span>

### People’s Square

The following day Julie and find ourselves walking in People’s Square.
If there is one thing the Chinese have gotten right it’s public
space—and parks in particular. It’s Sunday and all around us are people
enjoying the comforts of the park. Old Chinese men sit around low, stone
tables playing cards and
[mahjong](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Majiang). Young families walk
through park, snapping pictures on their digital cameras or, more often,
their cell phones. Young couples swing gently in white benches that sit
along the edge of a vibrant, green lawn. It is August so the lilies are
in bloom in a pond inelegantly translated on a wooden sign as “Blue
Green Pond”.

Earlier in the day we ran into three college students visiting Shanghai
from Quingdao. They take us to a tea tasting, which we find highly
coincidental. We ask them if they go to tea tastings often. They tell us
they’ve never done it before but on this day, of all days, they had
previously arranged for one not far from the park. The tasting is fun,
though expensive at ¥30 per person per pot. We sample five pots of tea
in total, including a delicious ginseng oolong, which Julie and I
purchase 150 grams of to take with us. The girl of the group—her name is
Zhang Mei, but she insists we call her by her western name, which is
Betty—thinks Julie is beautiful. She continually compliments Julie’s
“big, beautiful, blue eyes” and remarks on the large size of her nose,
which in China is a symbol of beauty. She keeps wanting to touch it,
which Julie finds amusing.

<a href="/images/171.jpg" class="thickbox"
title="Tea tasting with our friends from Quingdao."><img
src="http://somedaynevercomes.com/images/171t.jpg" /></a><span class="caption">Tea
tasting with our friends from Quingdao.</span>

Having finished the tea tasting, we say goodbye to the trio after
exchanging email addresses, and we return to the park. It is early
afternoon and, unsurprisingly, it is swelteringly hot. Julie and I seek
refuge under a canopy of trees that arch over a stone table surrounded
by matching stone stools. We take a seat, wiping sweat from our brow and
refreshing ourselves with water. As we’re sitting there, an older
Chinese man approaches me shyly. He walks as if he’s going to go past
the table but then, seemingly thinking otherwise, turns and approaches
our table. In awkward, but perfectly understandable english, he asks me
if I can tell him what a phrase he has written down means. He pulls out
a worn, black notebook and begins scanning the pages. Most pages are
covered in Chinese characters, but he finds several with english words
written down, and shows me the phrase: Blue Funk. He asks me what it
means. Not knowing the context, I tell him blue funk could mean feeling
sad. He looks confused, and tells me he thought it meant music. I look
at it again. I take his pen and add an “s” to the end of “Blue”, and
tell him that *Blues* and *Funk* are two types of music, but that they
can be combined musically. He seems to understand, and makes some notes
in the margin of the page, and asks me about another: detox, only, he
has it written as “dextox”. I scribble out the extraneous “x”. I have to
think about how to explain this one. The best I can come up with is if a
person drinks too much alcohol, it makes him feel sick. When a person
feels sick, he needs to rest so his body feels better. The act of
resting is a kind of detox. It’s a horrible analogy, but he seems
satisfied and makes a few more notes to. He sits down at an empty bench
and introduces himself as Zeng Fan Fu.

He tells me he was born in a small town in Chongqing. He came to
Shanghai as a boy, but had to flee back to his home in the 1940s when
Japan invaded. He later returned to Shanghai, where has lived for sixty
years since. He wears dark-rimmed glasses, which magnify his bright
eyes, making him appear younger than he likely is. He smiles a lot—he is
missing a few teeth and others are stained yellow, but it’s a kind
smile—-the kind of smile that makes you feel like a shithead for not
smiling more yourself.

He asks what we’re doing in China, and I tell him we are here as
tourists for two months. This seems to delight him. He pulls my map
closer—we had taken it out so he could show me where he was born—and
scans for something on the map. He find a small island off the coast of
Shanghai and tells me I must go there. He’s never been there himself,
but he heard it’s paradise. He then points to a mountain range back in
the region he’s from. He tells me he used to like climbing mountains
when he was younger. He tells me there’s a mountain there, one he always
dreamed of climbing but never managed to. He also tells me I should have
a blog, so I can post pictures of my travels. I literally fall of my
seat when he says this. Here’s a man who was chased out of Shanghai
during World War II, lived through the Cultural Revolution, and,
coservatively, is in his eighties, telling me I should I have a blog. I
decide in some small way he is my hero, and unlike Grouchie and Slouchie
on the train, I hope to be just like him someday. I tell him I, in fact,
have a blog, and write down the address in his notebook, telling him he
must visit it. He promises to do so and writes down his email for me in
return. He says I can email him if I have any questions and, considering
it for a moment, then writes down his cell phone number and tells me to
call him in case I get in trouble. He thanks me sincerely for my time,
and asks me to send other tourists to him so he can continue practicing
his english, and wanders off deeper into the park.

In the time that I have been talking to Zeng Fan Fu, and completely
unbeknownst to me, we have been surrounded by a crowd of spectators in
the park. Julie is fielding questions from five different people at
once, and more are patiently waiting to get their turn. I turn to my
left and see a shy, young boy looking at me and being coaxed to approach
closer by his mother. He tells me his name is Stephen in timid english,
and I tell him I have a cousin named Stephen. He smiles and hides in the
folds of his mother’s dress. And so it goes. One person after the next
taking their turn to talk to us—perhaps thirty in all. Most just want to
practice their english and are content to stick with the basics: what’s
your name? what’s your occupation? where are you going in China?
Several, who have a stronger grasp on english, want us to explain the
United States Social Security System, which proves quite a bit more
complicated.

An hour later, Julie and I find ourselves sitting to ourselves in the
park again, and just sort of look at each other in disbelief. Before
coming here, everyone always warned us about China saying it was one of
the most difficult places to travel: unfriendly people, overcrowded
cities, no sense of personal space, lack of hygiene, and a ridiculously
difficult language barrier. All this may prove to be true, but the last
twenty-four hours have been anything but.

#### <span id="comment">Comments</span>

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/shanghai#c000246"
id="c000246">1</a>  
<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com" rel="nofollow">Julie</a>

Sep 1, 01:46 AM

I just wanted to point out that Zeng Fan Fu even posted a comment on our
[A Prelude to
China](http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/a-prelude-to-china#c000243)
post.

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/shanghai#c000247"
id="c000247">2</a>  
<a href="mailto:japope79@hotmail.com" rel="nofollow">Jenny P</a>

Sep 1, 06:53 AM

Julie. I want to touch your nose. Actually, you just made sense of a
mystery that has plagued (ok, I am being dramatic) for years. Once, a
Japanese woman in broken english was telling me how beautiful my nose
was. I was flattered, but a bit confused by her boarderline obsession
with my nose. And now I understand. Hum…that is my feel-good moment of
the day!  
Miss you. Love you. Stay away from the booze that smells like sweaty
feet…I don’t remember the name, but it tastes just like it smells. :P

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/shanghai#c000248"
id="c000248">3</a>  
<a href="mailto:ccarter5@dc.rr.com" rel="nofollow">Aunt Linda
(Weird)</a>

Sep 1, 07:25 AM

Kai, your writing is so intriguing that I just can’t stop reading. It’s
unbelievable that you and Julie have met so many great people. By the
way, I have been in a Blue Funk several times and it ain’t no fun. I
never had to go to detox although some of my husbands did.  
Your definitions were right on the mark.

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/shanghai#c000249"
id="c000249">4</a>  
<a href="mailto:lconragan@hotmail.com" rel="nofollow">Dad</a>

Sep 1, 09:59 AM

these so interesting transcendental moments within your journey, and the
way you communicate them so viscerally, continue to amaze and impress….

your fan,

Dad

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/shanghai#c000250"
id="c000250">5</a>  
<a href="mailto:dianne@palcare.org" rel="nofollow">Dianne</a>

Sep 2, 05:56 AM

Hi, A beautiful article. My favorite is the story of the “blue funk”.
And possibly you could write down your explanation of social security,
as I’m still trying to figure it out. An incredible picture of you and
your friend at the Blue Tower. I met a chineese woman last night, who
told me about her father making her ” bird nest soup”. Her American name
is Anne and I liked her immediately because she’s shorter than I am.
Bird nest soup was her favorite as a child and her father was a chief
and made it for her for special occasions. I never realized the soup was
really made from birds’s nests. The broth is made from the digested
foods that the parent birds collect for the babies and then regurgitate.
I guess I would try anything at least once. I love sharing your
adventures. Love, Dianne

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/shanghai#c000251"
id="c000251">6</a>  
<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com" rel="nofollow">Kai</a>

Sep 2, 10:09 AM

We’ve seen Birds Nest Soup offered several places (more in Malaysia than
China, believe it or not). I’m tempted to try it but, in general, I try
not to eat things that are endangered (ie. turtles) or harmful to the
environment, which I’ve heard the birds nest soup is (obviously, for the
baby swiftlets). Of course, this may be a little too idealistic. I’ve
heard the taste is actually quite sweet, and the higher quality soup can
cost hundreds of dollars.

The Chinese are pretty infamous for eating just about anything,
especially in the Cantonese. In Guangzhou, there is a saying that
basically goes:

The Cantonese will eat anything with wings, except an airplane, and
anything with four legs, besides a table and chair.

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/shanghai#c000253"
id="c000253">7</a>  
<a href="mailto:towslee@gearboy.com" rel="nofollow">Jay and Grace</a>

Sep 3, 12:06 AM

Just got back from a week in Vermont visiting my sister’s new baby
(aww…)

The Chinese food gave me a flashback to eating lunch at Crux in downtown
Santa Cruz – but not in a happy way, I may never eat Chinese in the
States again – that looked amazing…

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/shanghai#c000254"
id="c000254">8</a>  
<a href="mailto:winglion@gmail.com" rel="nofollow">HuangZhi</a>

Sep 3, 12:18 AM

I like to read what you wrote, and hope you two enjoy what you see and
meet in China.

You are right about Cantonese, sadly, because the development of the
country, foods(animals) are not that diverse anymore for many reason…
:(. Good news is, they began aware of the environmental protection
issues. And trying their best to undo the damage, for the past few
years.

I made a mistake, telling you about the pearl river, actual pearl river
is in GuangDong. We went to HuangPu River which is part of Yangtze
River. Terribly sorry.

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/shanghai#c000255"
id="c000255">9</a>  
<a href="mailto:trevor@trevorvonstein.com" rel="nofollow">Trevor</a>

Sep 3, 05:53 AM

This is my favorite entry of yours yet. I am so happy you have found a
hospitable China. Fare well travellers.

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/shanghai#c000256"
id="c000256">10</a>  
<a href="http://puerh_tea.livejournal.com" rel="nofollow">Jason Fasi</a>

Sep 5, 12:36 PM

I enjoy reading your blog, but I would enjoy it more if your links to
things like “A Short History…” didn’t link to pages that require
software downloads to view them…

otherwise, a very nice post!

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/shanghai#c000257"
id="c000257">11</a>  
<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com" rel="nofollow">Kai</a>

Sep 5, 09:59 PM

Jason,

Most of our links don’t require software downloads to view them. In
fact, I think you managed to find the only one on our site. That
particular link is for an audiobook on the iTunes Music store. I wanted
to link it through Amazon but, unfortunately, they didn’t have the
audiobook version available. Thanks for the feedback.

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/shanghai#c000267"
id="c000267">12</a>  
<a href="mailto:Andrea@enlightend.com" rel="nofollow">Andrea</a>

Sep 11, 08:34 PM

Julie and Kai, I have been trying to keep up with your adventures, it’s
going by so fast. I can’t believe you have been gone for so long. Paul
and I are getting ready for our Asia trip. We land in BKK on the 14 of
Oct and head straight for Laos. Then Chaing Mai, then Cambodia. Are you
guys going to be in the area??? Take care.

#### Locations

- [Borneo](http://somedaynevercomes.com/category/Borneo/)
- [China](http://somedaynevercomes.com/category/China/)
- [Hawai’i](http://somedaynevercomes.com/category/Hawaii/)
- [Hong Kong](http://somedaynevercomes.com/category/Hong-Kong/)
- [Indonesia](http://somedaynevercomes.com/category/Indonesia/)
- [Malaysia](http://somedaynevercomes.com/category/Malaysia/)
- [Philippines](http://somedaynevercomes.com/category/Philippines/)
- [Singapore](http://somedaynevercomes.com/category/Singapore/)
- [Thailand](http://somedaynevercomes.com/category/Thailand/)

#### Topics

- [Books](http://somedaynevercomes.com/category/Books/)
- [Planning](http://somedaynevercomes.com/category/planning/)
- [Site News](http://somedaynevercomes.com/category/Site-News/)

### Recent Entries

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/where-have-we-been"
rel="bookmark">Where have we been?</a>  
<span class="date">Thursday October 11, 2007</span> / <a
href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/where-have-we-been#comment"
class="comments_invite">Comments</a> \[6\]

<a
href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/the-philippines-and-idc-training"
rel="bookmark">The Philippines and IDC Training</a>  
<span class="date">Sunday June 24, 2007</span> / <a
href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/the-philippines-and-idc-training#comment"
class="comments_invite">Comments</a> \[9\]

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/forward"
rel="bookmark">Forward</a>  
<span class="date">Thursday May 24, 2007</span> /
<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/forward#comment"
class="comments_invite">Comments</a> \[15\]

<a
href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/living-and-diving-in-semporna"
rel="bookmark">Living and Diving in Semporna</a>  
<span class="date">Thursday February 1, 2007</span> / <a
href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/living-and-diving-in-semporna#comment"
class="comments_invite">Comments</a> \[27\]

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/semporna-revisited"
rel="bookmark">Semporna Revisited</a>  
<span class="date">Sunday December 10, 2006</span> / <a
href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/semporna-revisited#comment"
class="comments_invite">Comments</a> \[21\]

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/books/travel-reading-list"
rel="bookmark">Travel Reading List</a>  
<span class="date">Thursday November 23, 2006</span> /
<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/books/travel-reading-list#comment"
class="comments_invite">Comments</a> \[8\]

<a
href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/throw-momma-from-the-train"
rel="bookmark">Throw Momma From the Train</a>  
<span class="date">Tuesday November 14, 2006</span> / <a
href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/throw-momma-from-the-train#comment"
class="comments_invite">Comments</a> \[9\]

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/beyond-shangri-la"
rel="bookmark">Beyond Shangri-La</a>  
<span class="date">Monday October 30, 2006</span> /
<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/beyond-shangri-la#comment"
class="comments_invite">Comments</a> \[16\]

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/catching-up"
rel="bookmark">Catching Up</a>  
<span class="date">Tuesday September 26, 2006</span> /
<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/catching-up#comment"
class="comments_invite">Comments</a> \[9\]

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/yixing"
rel="bookmark">Yixing</a>  
<span class="date">Monday September 18, 2006</span> /
<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/yixing#comment"
class="comments_invite">Comments</a> \[14\]

##### <img src="/media/interface/rss-icon.gif"

style="vertical-align: middle; margin: -1px 4px 3px 0" width="16"
height="16" />Subscribe Via:  [RSS](http://www.somedaynevercomes.com/rss/ "xml_feed_title") or [Atom](http://www.somedaynevercomes.com/atom/ "xml_feed_title")

### Latest Photos

All Photos and Content © Kai Conragan and Julie Brookman. All Rights
Reserved.  
If you are interested in using any photos or stories from this website,
please don't hesitate to [contact
us](mailto:info@somedaynevercomes.com "Send Us An Email"), we're quite
friendly.
