[Skip to Navigation](#globalnav) | [Skip to Content](#content)

Someday Never Comes - A Travel Blog

- <span id="home-btn">[Home](/ "Homepage")</span>
- <span id="words-btn"><a href="/archives/" class="active"
  title="View Site Archives"><span>Archives</span></a></span>
- <span id="photos-btn">[Gallery](/gallery/ "Photos Taken On Our Trip")</span>
- <span id="about-btn">[About](/about/ "View Site Archives")</span>

- <span id="next"><a
  href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/throw-momma-from-the-train"
  rel="next" title="Throw Momma From the Train"><span>Next </span></a></span>
- <span id="prev"><a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/catching-up" rel="prev"
  title="Catching Up"><span>Previous</span></a></span>

Latest Entry

# Beyond Shangri-La

## Monday October 30, 2006

Posted In: <a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/category/China/"
rel="tag">China</a> | Comments: [16](#comments "Jump To Entry Comments")
| Written By: [Kai Conragan](/about/ "Learn More About The Author")

They say never judge a man until you’ve walked in his shoes. Well, I’m
walking in a pair of Chinaman shoes and all I can tell you is that it’s
damn cold. That may have more to do with the fact that I don’t have any
socks on though.

[Jump to Part II](#partII "Start Reading Part II")

Actually, the shoes aren’t half-bad. They’re a far cry from the dual
density molded foam, waterproof $200 wonders we Americans like to
purchase for that one weekend of hiking per year. But still…not bad.
They’re camo-green hightops—if you can call a piece of fabric tied
around your ankle with some string hightops. The sole is hard, black
plastic and features the only logo visible on the shoes—some stamp from
a Chinese rubber company. Best of all, though, they’re lined with
synthetic wool, which is the only thing keeping the circulation going in
my feet.

I purchased the shoes in a small street-side store that, besides shoes,
sold everything from cheap, plastic thermoses to Tibetan fur hats. The
woman drove a hard bargain at ¥25, or about two bucks, but seeing as I
was bargaining in flip-flops and it was nearly zero degree outside, I
think she had the upper hand.

The funny thing is, I was just put to shame by a group of Tibetans
wearing these exact shoes. They just hiked 20 kilometers more or less
straight up and then straight down a mountain—in the rain, mind
you—while I sat coldly perched on a mule that one such Tibetan was
leading with one hand while smoking a cigarette with the other. But now
we’re getting ahead of ourselves.

### Golden Week

Kunming is as a good of place as any to start recounting this story, for
it’s there that we got the idea come to the place where we find
ourselves now.

We had just spent an enlightening week in Kunming wandering around the
wholesale tea market, being shown around by our friend Scott who lives
and works there. A thousand cups of tea later, Julie and I began
looking—as we always must—to the next location. Knowing both that we had
just a few weeks left in China and that one of those weeks happened to
coincide with National Week, or Golden Week as it’s referred to here in
China, we once again had to get moving.

Golden Week is heaven for the Chinese and hell for the foreign traveler.
Golden Week coincides with National Day, which celebrates the formation
of the People’s Republic of China on October 1, 1949. In 1999, in an
effort to expand domestic tourism and improve the national standard of
living, the Chinese government turned the National Day into a Golden
Week. Essentially, Chinese employees are given three paid holidays, and
weekends are rearranged so that seven consecutive days off are given to
workers across the country.

Needless to say, the Chinese are not complaining. Golden Week is the
time that millions of Chinese take-off in all directions of their
country, armed with new backpacks, still-plastic-smelling hiking boots,
and let’s not forget the trekking poles. Mind you, most Chinese stick to
cities and shopping, but that doesn’t stop them from buying the gear.
Like the <span class="caps">REI</span> yuppie back home, the emerging
Chinese middle-class is hungry for adventure, or at least their wardrobe
says so.

One of the joys of Golden Week is that prices across the country more
than double. Rooms that can be had ¥70 are over ¥200 for Golden Week—and
that’s if you can find one that isn’t already booked.

Now, I’ve had my share of run-ins with Chinese tourists at Yosemite, and
I can tell you it’s not pretty. The anticipation of having to deal with
millions of Chinese tourists—plus the price shock—was more than both
Julie and I wanted to deal with. Thus, we consulted our friend Scott—a
well-traveled guy, especially within Southwest China—and asked him where
he would recommend going to escape the droves. He unfolded our large map
of the country, scanned it for a few minutes with the tip of his finger,
and stopped it on a small point somewhere near the border of (Myanmar)
Bhurma and Tibet. *Here!*, he proclaimed.

The place he was pointing to was a tiny town called Deqin. *You could go
here and trek around the famous Melie Mountain*. Once you get past
Zhongdian you won’t see anybody\_.

Some trekking sounded good. Five weeks of traveling in China—almost
entirely in cities—had left both of us yearning to get away from the
ceaseless noise and commotion and experience some wilderness and
solitude. I had been especially sad when we left Chengdu without having
had a proper mountain experience, as the Himalayas lie in Chengdu’s
backyard.

### Zhongdian

<a href="/images/226.jpg" class="thickbox"
title="Zhongdian, with Old Town in the forefront."><img
src="http://somedaynevercomes.com/images/226t.jpg" /></a><span class="caption">Zhongdian,
with Old Town in the forefront.</span>

The journey to Deqin from Kunming is long—over twenty hours by bus. The
first leg of the journey is getting to the mountain town of Zhongdian.
An airport now services Zhongdian but, of course, we were going the
cheap route, which meant an overnight ride on a sleeper bus.

The term *sleeper bus* is a bit deceiving. These buses, rather than
seats, have bunk beds. Through engineering prowess—or maybe just sheer
determination—they’ve managed to squeeze three bunk beds per row,
sleeping six in a space that should barely be able to seat four. The
beds are so narrow that my left shoulder overhangs from the bed several
inches. Grateful for the bottle of Baijou purchased just before boarding
the bus, we each throw back a few shots and settle in for a night of
sleepless dozing.

Twelve hours later our bus drops us off at the long distance bus station
in Zhongdian. It’s a clear, crisp morning, and I can see my breath as I
step off the bus. Being a stranger here, even I can tell that change is
in the air. It’s that time of year when nature hasn’t quite decided
which season it wants to be—summer or fall. The temperature is
noticeably cool here, which it should be as we are at an elevation over
3300 meters.

Feeling wrecked from lack of sleep, stiff muscles, baijou-induced
headaches, and altitude, we grab a taxi and head for Old Town, where we
grab a room, close the curtains, and grab a few hours sleep.

### Shangri-La

In 1933, [James Hilton](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/James_Hilton) wrote
[Lost Horizon](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lost_Horizon_%28novel%29).
More memorable than any character in the book is the setting in which
the heart of the story takes place:
[Shangri-La](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shangri-la;) the mythical
utopia lying in the [Himalayas](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Himalayas)
where residents live in peace of mind and learned hearts. Four years
later, Frank Kapra’s film took the mountain utopia to the big screen,
forever cementing the mythical paradise in the imagination of westerners
and spiritual wanderers.

Shangri-la, of course, is based on the Tibetan belief of
[Shambhala](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shambhala--a) mystical kingdom
hidden somewhere beyond the snowpeaks of the Himalayas. Here, perfect
and semiperfect beings live out their lives while simultaneously guiding
the evolution of humankind. Shambhala is thought to be where the
Kalacakra comes from, which is the highest and most esoteric branch of
Tibetan mysticism.

Shambhala is a tough place to reach. Not only is it located somewhere
between the Gobi Desert and the Himalayas, but it is protected by a
cognitive force that prevents anyone from finding the kingdom that isn’t
meant to. For 900 years Tibetans have studied the Kalacakra, and much of
a Tibetan lamas life is dedicated to preparing himself for the journey
to Shambhala.

So it is with some surprise and a lot of amusement that I learn, upon
waking in the early afternoon from a restful nap, that I now find myself
in Shangri-La. I guess I should have tipped the cab driver better.

In the late 1990s China sponsored a group of experts in different fields
to conduct research into the actual location of Hilton’s famous
Shangri-La. An group comprised of archaeologists, botanists, literary
experts, religous scholars, and more concluded that Shangri-La is the
valley wherein Zhongdian lies.

The evidence is circumstantial but convincing nonetheless: The local
dialect of Yunnan has the only known translation of Shangri-La; the
ancient Tibetan name of *Zhongdian* literally translates to “city of the
sun and the moon of my heart”, which is the known meaning of Shangri-La;
topographic features are strikingly similar to the ones described by
Hilton; a multitude of religions and cultures exist in the area,
including a French-built church. There was even a plane crash in the
area around the time that Hilton’s story takes place, as described in
the book.

There’s just one problem: Hilton never visited China, much less
Shangri-La. Nevertheless, China is convinced Zhongdian is the real
Shangri-La—or at least the inspiration. Both the town and the county of
Zhongdian have been renamed to Shangri-La. The reality is that the
discovery of Shangri-La is a huge a tourist magnet—one with the
potential to bring in millions of tourist dollars.

Up on a hill on the outskirts of town is a huge prayer wheel, glimmering
gold and spinning slowly in the afternoon sun. At twenty four meters
high, it’s the tallest prayer wheel in the world. This prayer wheel was
put in as part of the Shangri-La renovation efforts, and beside it a new
monastery is still in construction. Below the hill the prayer wheel
rests upon lies the real beauty of Zhongdian: Old Town. Here exists a
collection of houses and storefronts that appear as though they have
been untouched since they were first erected. They are mostly
constructed of raw earth and protected from the elements by rough wooden
shingles with large rocks placed on top to prevent them from blowing
away when the high winds come. Elaborate wood carvings decorate the
homes, and the cloud motifs remind Julie and I of the ones we saw back
in Bali. The streets are made of cobblestone, and deep canals run
parallel on the sides. The residents use the water transported in these
canals for brushing their teeth and washing their hands, hair, and
dishes. Woolly, scraggly Yak and small, spotted cows walk unfettered in
the streets. Locals in brightly colored headdresses walk with woven
baskets hanging from from shoulder-yoks filled with fruits and dried
corn. Small horses in bright halters are led by their owners. Testament
to the rugged landscape, horses were the main form of transportation
here until the 1950s. Even today, far more people own horses than cars.

Zhongdian was once a stopover point for horse caravans carrying tea from
the fields of Yunnan into heights of Lhasa. This could be the very route
that [Pu-erh](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pu-erh) tea originated
on—fermenting on the backs of horses and mules as it was transported
over the misty mountains many centuries ago.

<a href="/images/227.jpg" class="thickbox"
title="Tibetan man with horses."><img
src="http://somedaynevercomes.com/images/227t.jpg" /></a><span class="caption">Tibetan
man with horses.</span>

### Songzanlin Monastery

<a href="/images/220.jpg" class="thickbox"
title="Songzanlin Monastery"><img
src="http://somedaynevercomes.com/images/220t.jpg" /></a><span class="caption">Songzanlin
Monastery</span>

Just a few kilometers outside of town lies what many guidebooks call the
best reason for coming to Zhongdian: Songzanlin Monastery.

The monastery was built under the direction of the [fifth Dalai
Lama](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lobsang_Gyatso%2C_5th_Dalai_Lama),
who himself chose the location through divination. The monastery is
built in the style of [Potala
Palace](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Potala_Palace) in Lhasa, it’s many
buildings and staircases rising up the slopes of a steep hill. It was
nearly destroyed during the [Cultural
Revolution](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cultural_revolution), but has
since been rebuilt and today stands as the most important Tibetan
monastery in Yunnan.

146 steps lead to the main prayer hall, and at this altitude, you feel
everyone of them. I’m in a bad mood after learning that there is a ¥30
entry fee and that we’re not allowed to take pictures in certain halls
after being scolded by a monk for doing so. Who gets scolded by a monk?
It doesn’t help that the Chinese tourist invasion has made it to the
monastery on the same day as us. Apparently, Shangri-La is a nice place
to visit during Golden Week.

The monastery takes care of itself though, and once you leave the main
rooms, you can loose yourself and the crowd in the narrow hallways and
small, dark rooms illuminated only by window light and yak oil candles.
Each room carries the calming fragrance of burning incense, and large
mats and wool blankets lie piled in most rooms—extra supplies for long
winters of quiet contemplation. I open the door to one small room and
find a monk sitting in the nook of a large window. He is deep in
meditation and unaware of my presence. Respecting the wishes of the
monastery, I close the door without taking a photo.

Perhaps my favorite scene, and one I’m able to photograph, is on the
roof of the main prayer hall, where I find a clothesline strung with
various bright orange, silk robes blowing lightly in the breeze.
Apparently, even Tibetan monks have dirty laundry to deal with. The
bright, mid-morning sun gives the cloth a golden glow. I touch one, and
realize it’s the softest silk I’ve ever felt

<a href="/images/223.jpg" class="thickbox" title="Dirty Laundry"><img
src="http://somedaynevercomes.com/images/223t.jpg" /></a><span class="caption">Dirty
Laundry</span>

  

<a href="/images/222.jpg" class="thickbox"
title="Young Tibetan monk runs through the monastery courtyard."><img
src="http://somedaynevercomes.com/images/222t.jpg" /></a><span class="caption">Young
Tibetan monk runs through the monastery courtyard.</span>

  

<a href="/images/221.jpg" class="thickbox"
title="Tibetan Prayer Wheels"><img
src="http://somedaynevercomes.com/images/221t.jpg" /></a><span class="caption">Tibetan
Prayer Wheels</span>

After over an hour of wandering, Julie and I emerge into the bright
sunlight. We wander off down a narrow alleyway that leads to more
buildings. We come across a group of young monks, sitting on the the
doorstep of an old building. I offer them some honey-glazed rice snacks,
which they take with a guilty smile, and they allow me to snap a few
photos.

<a href="/images/224.jpg" class="thickbox" title="Young Monks"><img
src="http://somedaynevercomes.com/images/224t.jpg" /></a><span class="caption">Young
Monks</span>

Further down, the alley turns to dirt and I see an old man working on
the porch of his home, tending to some potted flowers. Over 700 monks
make this monastery their home. This particular monk seems curious in
us, as Julie catches him staring between two plants as we walk by. He
smiles, disappears into his home, and we hear footsteps descending to
the street level. A worn, red door opens, and out steps the monk,
dressed in maroon robes and black-rim glasses, which I note are taped
together at nearly ever joint.

<a href="/images/225.jpg" class="thickbox"
title="Tibetan monk leads us to his home."><img
src="http://somedaynevercomes.com/images/225t.jpg" /></a><span class="caption">Tibetan
monk leads us to his home.</span>

He leads us through the door and down an old stone pathway. Sunflowers
and yellow and orange marigolds line it’s path. He takes us up a set of
steep, rickety stairs that lead to the upper-level of his house. Inside
is dark, and he flicks on a single light switch that turns on the
dimmest light bulb I’ve ever seen and does little to dispel the
darkness.

He brings us to the kitchen, which has large, built-in cupboards along
the walls made of a wood I’m not familiar with. The cupboards appear
even larger than they are due to the fact that nearly every shelf is
empty—a few bowls and cups placed haphazardly are all that is held.

On the opposite end of the room is a small window that illuminates a
small, pot-belly stove that rests on the cold, stone floor. Smoke rises,
backlit by the window. The monk invites us to sit around the stove, and
he sets about pulling down glasses from those bare cupboards.

After dusting out the glasses with an old rag, he fills two of them with
hot water and offers them to us. He then pulls a plastic jar down full
of raw sugar, and motions for us to add some to the water. He takes
none.

Hanging above the stove is a basket, that has a few large pieces of what
I assume to be extremely moldy bread, until I look closer and realize
that it is cheese. I’ve seen this same cheese in the markets back in
town, and know it to be Yak cheese, which is the sourest tasting cheese
I have ever tried.

The monk sits in front of the window, so that he is backlit and I can’t
see his face. I can see that he is smiling though, and the years have
claimed quite a few of his teeth.

He speaks Tibetan, and we only have a Mandarin phrasebook, so we
literally can’t say a word to each other. He seems a lot more
comfortable sitting in silence than Julie and I, which really shouldn’t
be surprising. After a while, I get the idea to turn on my iPod and see
if he likes listening to music. I hand him one of my earbuds, which he
sticks in his right ear, indicating he can’t hear anything in his left.
He’s lukewarm about Coltrane, but is quite fond of Baka Beyond, and
listens to several songs—laughing occasionally—before handing me back
the earbud.

After we finish our hot sugar water, he insists we take more. This cycle
happens several times, before Julie and I, overfilled with sugar water,
take our leave.

### Onward

After a few days in Zhongdian, Julie and I are feeling acclimated and
ready to move on. There are really only two options for heading deeper
into the mountains: a long bus ride or a hired car. We opt for the
latter, as we have heard that the scenery on the drive is spectacular,
and buses don’t make stops for tourists to take pictures.

We let our hotel know we are looking for a driver, and they put us in
touch with a group of Chinese tourists who are also heading to Dequin
and have already hired out two vehicles to do so.

There are eight of them in total, Julie and I make ten, so we have two
very filled vans. To our relief, none of the eight smoke, which is
almost unheard of in China.

In our van is a man who calls himself Rick—his Western name—and we’re
happy to find he speaks very good English. We learn they are from
Suzhou, and members of an internet travel group. One of their members,
who is riding in the other van, has recently completed a trip from
Beijing to Lhasa via bicycle.

Our vans climb up and out of Zhongdian, and begin the long wind through
the mountains that will drop us in Felai. In the few days that have
passed since arriving in Zhongdian, the season seems to have resolutely
decided to be fall; autumn colors of red and yellow pepper the green
slopes of the mountainsides.

<span id="partII">**Part II**</span>

### Melie Snow Mountain

<a href="/images/234.jpg" class="thickbox"
title="Prayer Flags at Feilei"><img
src="http://somedaynevercomes.com/images/234t.jpg" /></a><span class="caption">Prayer
Flags at Feilei</span>

The Tibetans believe that once all the snow is gone from their
mountains, the world will end. There may be more truth to this than they
know, and it’s hard not believe them, especially when gazing upon Melie
Snow Mountain for the first time—it’s main peak rising like a white
cathedral into the thin atmosphere above.

Melie Snow Mountain is located just West of Deqin. The peak—known as
Kagebo—ascends to 6,470 meters, making it the highest peak in Yunnan.

For the people that live here, the mountain is a dominating and
omnipresent force, and they hold the mountain in great reverence,
referring to it as the “Virgin Mountain”. Indeed, it’s peak has never
been set upon by the foot of man. While each year hundreds of climbers
reach the summit of Mt. Everest at over 29,000 feet, Kagebo is
unconquered. This, however, is not for lack of trying. Many climbers
have attempted to reach it’s peak, but all have been rejected. The most
ill-fated attempt occurred in 1991 when a Sino-Japan joint climbing team
attempted to summit the mountain. Details are unknown, but all of
them—six Chinese and eleven Japanese—died in the attempt.

Melie Snow Mountain is part of the Hengduan Mountain region, which lies
at the eastern end of the Himalayan range. These mountains are still
being created, as the Indian continent collides into the Eurasian plate.
The mountains rise steeply out of arid canyons and valleys, the extreme
change in elevation creating seven distinct climactic zones and a
tremendous amount of bio-diversity. Over nine thousand species of plants
exist here, including a quarter of the world’s known rhododendron
species. Asiatic black bears and red pandas roam the countryside, and
even [Chatwin’s](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bruce_Chatwin) elusive
[Snow
Leopard](http://www.amazon.com/gp/redirect.html?ie=UTF8&location=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.amazon.com%2FSnow-Leopard-Classic-Nature-Penguin%2Fdp%2F0140255087%2Fsr%3D8-1%2Fqid%3D1162273372%3Fie%3DUTF8%26s%3Dbooks&tag=somedayneverc-20&linkCode=ur2&camp=1789&creative=9325)<img
src="http://www.assoc-amazon.com/e/ir?t=somedayneverc-20&amp;l=ur2&amp;o=1"
style="border:none !important; margin:0px !important;" data-border="0"
width="1" height="1" /> is known to live in the ever-white slopes higher
up. On the 5,000 meter high Tibetan Plateau, four of Asia’s great rivers
make their first turns—including the Brahmaputra, the Salween, the
Mekong, and the Yangtze.

In short, this is a special place and none know it better than the
Tibetans: Melie Snow Mountain is the holiest of their eight holy
mountains. Every year, Buddhists that live near and far make a
pilgrimage here. Over the course of a week, sometimes two, pilgrims walk
around the base of the mountain, leaving offerings in the many holy
spots along the way, and stopping to gaze up at Kagebo Peak whenever it
makes an appearance through mist and clouds.

### Yubeng

The caravan from Zhongdian delivers all ten of us—our eight Chinese
friends and Julie and I—in the small town of Felai, which is really just
a collection of guesthouses West of Deqin with unobstructed views of
Melie. As the peak is often shrouded in clouds, visitors are considered
lucky to see it. Dusk is falling as we gather our bags from the roof of
our minivan, and a storm seems to be brewing as evidence by the clouds
gathering around the base of the mountain. The peak, for now, remains
hidden.

Our friends already have reservations—Chinese travelers always plan
ahead—so Julie and I wander until we find a guesthouse with a vacancy.
Even here, Golden Week has brought an influx of Chinese tourists and
rooms are scarce and overpriced.

After getting settled, our Chinese friends join us at our guesthouse for
dinner. It’s a small restaurant with a dark interior but large windows
facing West towards the mountain. A warm fire crackles in a large
pot-belly stove as an enormous kettle of water steams from it’s spout on
the hot, iron surface. There is a mixed scent of smoke and acrid yak
butter.

We grab a table in the corner of the restaurant. Night has nearly
fallen, but I can just make out the blue hue and dark cracks of a
glacier descending the lower slopes of the mountain. It may be an
illusion, but I swear through the window I see a large chunk of ice
break off the glacier and crash down the mountainside. Rick orders
dinner for everyone, and we are treated to Yak hotpot.

<a href="/images/235.jpg" class="thickbox" title="Yak Hot Pot"><img
src="http://somedaynevercomes.com/images/235t.jpg" /></a><span class="caption">Yak
Hot Pot</span>

The next day we meet up with our friends once again for breakfast. They
inform us they will be leaving Felai that morning, and heading for
Yubeng, which is a small village that lies closer to the base of the
mountain. There are no roads leading to the village, so we must hike or
take horses. Julie and I had thought we might spend a day longer in
Felai, but as the view of the mountain is still obstructed by clouds,
and we really have no idea what we’re doing here besides escaping, we
decide to join them.

Two hours later, after descending several thousand feet down from Felai
on a steep, windy road, we find ourselves crossing a bridge across the
Lancang river. After following a gravel road through a small village, we
pull into a makeshift parking lot filled with Chinese tourists.

Now, back in Zhongdian, I had nearly laughed myself into hysterics when
I saw a Chinese tourist wearing a bright yellow North Face Gore-Tex®
jacket, insulated waterproof hiking pants, gators, and cramp-on ready
hiking boots while walking through the cobblestone streets of Old Town.
Best of all, he had been donning a pair trekking poles. For a brief
moment I thought he had just returned from a hike out in the
countryside, until I looked down at his boots and saw they didn’t have a
scuff on them, and then watched as he entered a jewelry store. A few
minutes later, he emerged from the shop, set his trekking poles into the
worn grooves of the cobblestone, and set forth, to the next jewelry shop
five feet up the road.

Here, I believe, I found his brethren. To their credit, at least they
are standing in a dirt parking lot and not a cobblestone street, but
spread before me is a kaleidoscope of brightly colored jackets and
backpacks fresh off the rack, several with tags still hanging from the
zippers; leather hiking boots with shiny black soles; insulated rain
paints that would leave me sweating were it twenty degrees colder; and,
of course, trekking poles.

The local Tibetans are having a field day, offering guide services and
pack mules to the barrage of tourists. Rick informs me the price for a
mule to Yubeng is usually ¥120, but in honor of Golden Week the Tibetans
have raised the price up to ¥200. Buddhist or not, business is business.
The Chinese don’t seem to mind, as is apparent by all the smiles—Golden
Week only occurs once a year and in many respects its a source of pride
among the Chinese to be able to pay for a trip such as this.

<a href="/images/243.jpg" class="thickbox" title="Busy Base-camp"><img
src="http://somedaynevercomes.com/images/243t.jpg" /></a><span class="caption">Basecamp</span>

The overwhelming amount of Chinese tourists huddled in groups, speaking
loudly, and smoking cigarettes, combined with the chaos of the Tibetans
hoisting heavy packs on the backs of donkeys and mules becomes a bit
much for Julie and I. We’ve come all this way to escape the crowds of
the cities and insanity of Golden Week, and here we find ourselves at
ground zero for a caravan of tourists with more gear than an Everest
expedition.

We talk with Rick—the only one we know that speaks english—to try and
get a better understanding of what we’ve gotten ourselves into. He
confirms that all of these people are heading to Yubeng, and says he’s a
bit surprised at how many people there are as well.

One thing about your average Chinese tourist is that they don’t go
anywhere without due diligence and planning. Rick and his group aren’t
any different in this respect. Each member of the group literally has a
printed itinerary of their entire trip, down to where they’ll eat,
sleep, and shit. A few extra tourists aren’t going to change plans that
have been months in the making. For Julie and I, we aren’t so certain.

To make matters worse, it appears we’ve grossly underestimated the hike
we are about to undertake. We expected a few kilometer hike to the next
village down the river. Instead, Rick informs us we’re looking at a 22
kilometer hike—14 kilometers up, and 8 kilometers down into the next
valley. I look down at my Keen walking shoes, and begin looking a bit
differently at the myriad hiking boots collecting their first coating of
dust on the Chinese tourists around me. The Chinese are always prepared.

After conferring together for a few minutes, however, we decide we don’t
have any other option than to continue forward. An expensive minivan—as
there are no other passengers to share the ride costs with—could take us
back to Yubeng, but then we’ll be just be sitting in restaurants looking
up at a mountain we can’t see. There’s no way we’re hopping an eight
hour bus ride back to Zhongdian after just arriving the night before.
And from analyzing a crappy hand-drawn map we picked up in Felai, we
don’t see any other options for hiking, and we don’t have the proper
gear for camping anyway.

So we join the caravan of Chinese tourists and set out for Yubeng. Rick
and his group have rented several mules to carry their packs and several
more that a few of them will ride. There’s room for one extra bag on one
of the pack mules, so we place Julie’s on it, which has gained weight
since Zhongdian in the form of a large, handmade copper and brass tea
kettle she couldn’t say no to. I’m stuck with an 18 kilo pack, which has
slowly accrued weight as we have traveled through China as well. Rick
suggests hiring another mule, but at this point I’m feeling both
arrogant and stubborn, and don’t feel like dropping twenty bucks on a
floppy eared mule. *Screw it*, I tell myself, \_I’ll show them hiking is
more than Gore-Tex and Vibram. A kilometer later, I’m bent over on the
side of the trail, sucking in air from the 12,000 foot alitutude. A
happy Chinese man passes me on a mule, singing a song and waving as he
goes. A few kilometers later, it starts raining, and doesn’t stop for
three days.

### Lower Yubeng

We reach Yubeng an hour before nightfall. Over the course of the six
hour hike, our group has grown greatly disbanded. Six have already
reached the village, including the five who took mules plus the guy who
rode his bike from Beijing to Lhasa. Rick and his girlfriend are a ways
behind us on the trail.

Yubeng is not large, but it’s separated into upper and lower villages.
Lower Yubeng is nestled into a deep valley that glows gold in the dusk.
Mist swirls out of green valley floor, and meets the raindrops on their
descent from the heavens. Upper Yuben, which we reach first on the
trail, is a collection of homes built into the steep hillsides that
ascend out of the valley.

Most of the villagers have made makeshift guesthouses out of their
homes, so beds are easy to find, but we have no idea which guesthouse
our group intends to bed at that night. The big decision to make is
whether to stay in the upper or lower village. Julie and I are both
tired enough where if we descend to the lower village, we know there’s
not way we’ll ascend back to the upper village should we realize the
rest of our group is not there. None of this would really matter, except
for the fact that Julie’s backpack is with the members of the group that
have already arrived. If we don’t find them, we don’t find her backpack.

With night falling, we decide to descend to Lower Yubeng, which turns to
be the right decision. Shortly before crossing the river that stands
between the two villages, we come to a lean-to structure where local
Tibetans and Chinese tourists have congregated, most drinking baijou,
beer, or both. Here, we see one of the more gregarious members of our
group—he calls himself Tiger—who offers us a large grin and points to
Julie’s backpack lying at his feet.

Exhausted, we finish the remaining fifteen minute hike, and grab a room
at a family’s house called the An Zhui Guesthouse.

### The Waterfall

The next morning, stiff and sore, we manage to pull ourselves out of bed
shortly after sunrise. Pulling on our clothes, we can see our breath.
Our room has two beds, and in between the two beds is a window. We pull
back a piece of fabric hung by line of tie-wire to discover there is no
glass in the window. I poke my head out and see several chickens running
down a narrow, dirt alley.

Once again, we join our friends for breakfast, this time at their
guesthouse, which is several homes down a muddy road full of hoof
prints. They inform us they’ll be ascending to Upper Yubeng that day,
and then hiring horses to take them to a place called Ice Lake. There is
a waterfall in the valley we are in now; they had hoped to go their
yesterday, but underestimated the time it would take to reach the
village so have decided to cross it off their itinerary. Julie and I are
in less of a hurry than they are, so we decide to hang back and tell
them we’ll try to meet them that night in Upper Yubeng.

<a href="/images/228.jpg" class="thickbox"
title="Our Chinese Traveling Companions"><img
src="http://somedaynevercomes.com/images/228t.jpg" /></a><span class="caption">Our
Chinese Traveling Companions.</span>

After breakfast, we set out to explore Lower Yubeng village. The village
is simply comprised of several intersecting dirt roads—now muddy from
yesterday’s rain and torn up from hooves—and a collection of small
homes. The homes have stone foundations and rough, hand-cut wooden
shingles. As in Zhongdian, large rocks have been placed on the shingles
to keep them in one place. Large wood doors break-up white earthen
walls, stained with motley splatters of mud. Most homes are separated by
large expanses of pasture, segmented by fences constructed of tree
branches. These are presumably for animals, but they seem fairly
ineffective as small cows, yak, pigs, and chickens run freely through
the streets.

In the yard of one such home, we see a Tibetan woman hobbling the
hind-legs of a cow. She’s wearing a bright pink headdress and smiles us
at us when we wave to her. She’s milking the cow into a wooden bucket.
In one corner of the yard, a black yak eyes us uneasily. In another, a
group of pigs are making a racket, and we look over to see one of the
males mount the lone female. Julie and I are amused by this, as is the
Tibetan woman, as she knows more pork is on the way. When the male pig
is finished, another takes his place.

<a href="/images/231.jpg" class="thickbox"
title="Old Woman Milking Her Cow"><img
src="http://somedaynevercomes.com/images/231t.jpg" /></a><span class="caption">Old
Woman Milking Her Cow</span>

<a href="/images/230.jpg" class="thickbox" title="Morning Sex"><img
src="http://somedaynevercomes.com/images/230t.jpg" /></a><span class="caption">We
had biology lessons as well.</span>

<a href="/images/229.jpg" class="thickbox"
title="Dri is a female Yak for milking."><img
src="http://somedaynevercomes.com/images/229t.jpg" /></a><span class="caption">*Dri*
is a female Yak for milking.</span>

As the morning grows late, I convince Julie to make the hike with me to
the waterfall further up the valley. It’s still raining, and she’s tired
from yesterday’s hike, but comes along nonetheless.

On the outskirts of town, just as we’re crossing a small bridge over a
small creek, we meet a Chinese man who introduces himself as Albert. He
speaks very good english, and we learn he’s from Tonghai, where he runs
a cafe and teaches english. He’s been in the middle of a debate with
himself over whether to go the waterfall himself or not. At the prospect
of company, he decides to join us. As we hike, he tell us he has son
back in Tonghai, and he wants to make it back there for the Moon
Festival in a few days.

<a href="/images/239.jpg" class="thickbox"
title="A quick post trail picture after our trip to the waterfall. Our friend Albert in the center."><img
src="http://somedaynevercomes.com/images/239t.jpg" /></a><span class="caption">A
quick post trail picture after our trip to the waterfall. Our friend
Albert in the center.</span>

The trail is wide, easy to follow, and for the most part flat. It leads
through a pine forest peppered with deciduous trees and follows the
contour of the creek we crossed setting out of town. Oak-like trees, far
smaller in diameter than the ones I’m used to back, have bright green
moss growing on the trunks and branches. The rain and canopy of tree is
comforting to me as I walk—reminding of walks in the redwoods where I
once lived for a spell—and I note the percussion of the raindrops as
they land on the hood of rainjacket.

Several kilometers up the trail, we come to a clearing in the trees. On
the banks of the creek, which has grown wider as we walk, thousands of
rock ducks stand piled. I ask Albert if he knows about them, and he
tells me the Tibetans build them as offerings. On the other side of the
trail is a large rock covered with various offerings from Tibetans:
coins, wood beads, pieces of fruit, and various strips of fabric and
prayer flags. This is one of many holy places in the area, and pilgrims
make these offerings as they walk the base of the mountain. I look up,
hoping for a glimpse of Kagebo—this as yet unseen presence that draws so
many to it’s base—but all I can see are dark rain clouds and green,
yellow, and red trees disappearing into the mist on the steep slopes
ascending out of the valley.

<a href="/images/236.jpg" class="thickbox"
title="Stone ducks made as offerings by the Tibetans."><img
src="http://somedaynevercomes.com/images/236t.jpg" /></a><span class="caption">Stone
ducks made as offerings by the Tibetans.</span>

Further along the trail, we cross a group of Tibetan women. They wear
brightly colored headdresses and carry umbrellas. Through Albert, we
learn these women, not one of them younger than forty, have been walking
for ten days around the mountain. They expect they have another four
days to go. I watch them as they set out, and see one, easily in her
sixties, jump spryly from rock to rock, so as not to get mud on her
shoes.

<a href="/images/237.jpg" class="thickbox"
title="Albert talks with a group of Tibetan women we meet walking the base of the mountain."><img
src="http://somedaynevercomes.com/images/237t.jpg" /></a><span class="caption">Albert
talks with a group of Tibetan women we meet walking the base of the
mountain.</span>

Shortly after noon, we reach the waterfall. It’s actually two
waterfalls, each cascading hundreds of feet off a steep cliff, the
streams of water turning to mist as they fall. Thousands of Tibetan
prayer flags are strewn at the base, and they make loud cracking sounds
in the wind. We have essentially come to the end of the valley, which is
shaped somewhat like the inside of U, and the waterfall lies where the
valley curves. There’s a low-altitude glacier here, the end of which
lies below the waterfall. Water gushes out from underneath the glacier,
clear evidence that this glacier is receding, and I realize the stream
we followed for most of the trail is created from the melt-off.

<a href="/images/238.jpg" class="thickbox" title="Waterfall"><img
src="http://somedaynevercomes.com/images/238t.jpg" /></a><span class="caption">Waterfall</span>

The high winds and cool air at this high point in the valley chase us
down from the waterfall before long. We descend back down the trail.
It’s early afternoon, and we’re all hungry, so we stop at a makeshift
shed along the trail several kilometers down. Sheds such as this are
setup at various points along the trail, providing a place for tourists
and pilgrims alike to warm themselves over an open-fire and refuel on
hot tea and soup.

Albert greets the man there, and makes arrangements for us to have
noodle soup. Albert informs us that in these places, it’s best to cook
the food yourself, or you never know what you’ll end up with. Albert is
eager to cook for us, as he’s been telling us about his cafe for much of
the walk. He slices up some bacon that is un-refrigerated, but the
temperature is cool enough where it’s not necessary. He also throws in
some chopped green onions, a few eggs and, of course, noodles. Julie and
I sit inside the shack while Albert cooks the meal just outside the door
over a wood-stove. Inside the tent, a giant maroon liver lies on a
wooden table, steaming from the warmth it still holds. Whatever animal
donated this liver was breathing just a few hours ago.

Lunch is warm and delicious. Simple food takes on new properties when
consumed while wet and cold. When we’re finished eating, we pay the man
for the ingredients, and head off down the trail.

Arriving back in Lower Yubeng, the three of us decide to grab our main
packs and continue to Upper Yubeng. All three of us are tired from the
day’s hike and aren’t looking forward to another forty-five minutes up a
steep trail while burdened by heavy packs. Albert, however, is eager to
get to Upper Yubeng so he can set off easily for home the next day, and
I feel we should meet our other Chinese friends as promised, as they
have gone so out of their way to help us during the past few days.

We arrive in Upper Yubeng as night falls, and take up residence in the
agreed upon guesthouse.

As I’m standing outside my room, I notice three chickens roosting in for
the night on a woven basket that has been haphazardly placed against a
wall. The three birds are in a sort of struggle for prime real estate,
as the basket is only wide enough for two birds. The odd bird out
balances on the back of the other two birds, attempting to force itself
into the position of one of the other two birds. The positions rotate
for several minutes—always one bird on top and two on the bottom—and the
pattern reminds me of those Chinese health balls—known as Baoding—that
you rotate in your hand to ease tension. Just as the positions change
once again, a Tibetan man comes out from the kitchen, and grabs a
chicken by the legs that happens to at the top of the pile that moment.
Thirty seconds later, the chicken’s neck is broken and is floating in a
large pot of boiling water over an open-fire outside the kitchen.

I’m not sure what it is that strikes me about this sight. Here are three
chickens, simply attempting to settle in for the night, and one is
suddenly dead in less than thirty seconds. Perhaps I’m just startled by
swiftness, or by the nonchalance displayed by the Tibetan, who does the
whole thing as casually as picking a carrot out of the ground. It makes
me realize how separate we Westerners have become from our food source.
Meat is simply something we see at our local grocery store or butcher,
neatly packaged and wrapped in plastic. A commodity. Sure, many of us
have small gardens where we grow various herbs and vegetables, but I
would wager that the vast majority of us rarely, if ever, kill the food
we eat. The only time I have ever done so is when fishing with my Dad as
a kid. But even then I only caught the fish—my dad did the killing and
cleaning. As I watch the man snatch the boiled chicken out of the water
and begin plucking it’s feathers, I wonder whether I would be a
vegetarian or not if I had to perform the same ritual each time I craved
a bit of protein.

Thirty minutes later, I’m eating the chicken, which has been sauteed in
oil along with green bell peppers and chillies. We’re in the kitchen of
the guesthouse, which is filled with smoke as there are several open
fires burning but no chimney. The whole kitchen is just a wood structure
with a dirt floor. In one corner is a table setup as a chopping block,
along with two giant woks fueled by a wood-fed open flame rising out of
a stone stove. Various tables and benches are strewn about the room, and
another open fire roars in the middle of the room, which everyone is
using to dry various garments over—pants, socks, and so forth—that have
become wet and soggy from the day’s rain. The only thing in the room
that seems to have any planning is the Buddhist shrine in a corner
opposite the cooking area: it has various small statues of Buddha,
myriad pictures of different monks and lamas, and small offerings like
those we saw back on the trail to the waterfall.

It’s a packed house: in addition to Julie and I, Albert, and our other
eight Chinese friends, another group of Chinese tourists has called this
guesthouse home for the night. There’s also half-a-dozen Tibetans in the
room, assumed friends and family of the people that run the guesthouse.
By this point in the evening, everyone has had their share of food,
beer, and baijou. A lamb roasted on a spit outside kitchen is brought
in. Singing ensues, initiated by a young Tibetan who’s had a bit more to
drink than everyone else. He teaches everyone a Tibetan drinking song,
and soon the whole kitchen is singing along. This is followed by two
other Tibetans who bring out a pair of
[Erhus](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Erhu--Chinese) two-string
fiddles—and play us several Tibetan songs, with quite a bit more beauty
and harmony than the drinking song. Soon, the Chinese are taking turns
singing various nationalist songs—Alber tells us most of them are
leftovers from the Communist days of
[Mao](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mao). Julie and I don’t escape, and
give them several performances of American songs, ranging from Christmas
carols (which the Chinese love) to [John
Denver](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Denver) and [Woodie
Guthrie](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Woodie_Guthrie).

<a href="/images/232.jpg" class="thickbox"
title="Tibetan Drinking Songs"><img
src="http://somedaynevercomes.com/images/232t.jpg" /></a><span class="caption">Tibetan
Drinking Songs</span>

### The Ice Lake

The following day we say goodbye to Albert, Rick, Tiger, and the rest of
our Chinese friends, all of whom are taking the long twenty-two
kilometer trail back to the next village where they can then get
minivans to their respective destinations.

Julie and I are both feeling a bit worn out from two days of heavy
hiking and now a night filled with drinking. The rain, which has not
stopped in three days, is beginning to wear us down as well. We simply
don’t have the clothes we need for this weather. Last night’s events
haven’t helped: during the festivities, Julie’s shoes, which were drying
by the fire, got a little too close and one of the soles melted.

Nevertheless, I’m antsy to go and see the Ice Lake. It’s one of the
holiest locations on the mountain and I know we’ll be leaving Yubeng the
next day—so it’s today or never. After quite a bit of prodding, I
convince Julie to follow me—melted shoes and all—and we set out.

What was a bit of mud the first two days has transformed into soup that
is ankle deep in most places along the trail. The heavy amount of horse
traffic of recent has added to the mess. We’re able to dodge most of the
it as the trail starts out flat, walking along the edge and through the
moss-covered trees. As the trail steepens, however, we’re forced to
converge on the main trail. It gets slippery enough that we both cut
pieces of bamboo growing beside the trail to use as walking sticks. The
rain increases.

Several hours of climbing up a steep trail, often using our hands to
pull ourselves up with tree roots, we reach the top of a ridge that
provides a saddle between two steeper peaks. Looking due west, a large
valley spreads out before us, and further out, a large glacier clings to
the slopes of Melie Mountain. By our estimates, we’re at the midway
point. We follow a trail down, this one steeper than the we used to
climb up. Fortunately, rocks have been placed along the trail, which act
as steps and eliminate the mud. Reaching the valley floor, we cross a
gurgling stream via a makeshift bridge of fallen trees. From here we set
out along the valley, winding through trees and pulling away from the
stream. A short while later, we come to a small collection of wood
shacks, which signal that we’ve reached a place known as Basecamp. We
step into one of the shacks, and are greeted to a warm, roaring fire and
two Tibetans crouching around it. We take off our wet out clothes and
dry them by the fire. The Tibetans offer us small benches, handmade and
no taller than our kneecaps, which we accept gladly. A small cat is near
the fire, lulled by the heat. Julie scoops her up and places her in her
lap.

<a href="/images/240.jpg" class="thickbox"
title="Julie Stayed and enjoyed the comforts of a warm cat and soup while Kai Hiked to the Ice Lake."><img
src="http://somedaynevercomes.com/images/240t.jpg" /></a><span class="caption">
Julie Stayed and enjoyed the comforts of a warm cat and soup while Kai
Hiked to the Ice Lake.</span>

I check my watch and note that it’s two o’clock. The Ice Lake is
reportedly another hour hike from Basecamp. That leaves plenty of time
to make it there, but cuts the return to our guesthouse close as night
falls around six. I tell Julie we should get going, but a warm fire and
a purring cat in her lap have taken any motivation out of her. I can
tell by the look in her eyes she’s done, and she tells me as much.

I throw on my wet rainjacket and gloves and tell her I’ll be back in no
more than two hours.

Setting off from the the shack at an ambitious pace, the rain is steady
and I weave paths around the various mudholes along the way. I can
squeeze water out of my gloves if I clench my walking stick. I check a
thermometer I have attached to a zipper on my jacket, which reads 8
degrees centigrade.

The trail meets up with and crosses the stream once again. I pass a few
tourists returning from the Ice Lake. Farther along, I come to a group
of Tibetans loading Chinese tourists onto mules. From looking at the
trail, I gather this is as far as the mules go, as it begins to get
quite a bit steeper and narrow as the trail rises over a small ridge. An
Italian tourist tells me the Ice Lake is just on the other side. As I
walk past, one mule snorts a cloud of mist as it accepts the weight of
it’s new burden. I give it a sympathetic look and continue up the trail.

Fifteen minutes later, I’m standing on a high ridge looking down at a
bright blue reservoir collected at the base of the glacier: Ice Lake.
Checking my watch, I note I made it in forty minutes, which leaves me
with time to spare. The rain and clouds, combined with the high winds at
this altitude, make the lake difficult to see even though it’s just a
hundred meters off. The weather gives the lake an ethereal quality. To
my joy, I’m the only one there.

I scramble down the ridge, making my way carefully as the terrain now is
just a giant collection of loose, football size rocks. This is known as
an end moraine: a loose collection of sediment and rocks that is
deposited by glaciers are their slow and powerful slide down a mountain.
As I approach the edge of the lake, I notice that hundreds of these
rocks have been stacked into ducks, similar to those i saw along the
stream that lead to the waterfall.

Under better conditions, I can tell the lake would be a shimmering
display of green and blue. In this grey light, it’s a subdued turquoise.
I remove my glove and put my hand in the lake. Even though my hand is
wet and cold, I can’t resist touching something so pure. Looking up, I’m
overwhelmed at how steep the glacier is, rising almost vertically above
me. In places it appears as if it is arching over me. The glacier is a
tangled mess of cracked ice and trapped rocks, and myriad small streams
flow down the mountainside.

As I’m looking up, a car-size chunk of ice breaks off the glacier a
thousand feet up, and shatters as it careens down the mountain. Small
pieces of ice land in the far side of the lake, creating ripples in the
water that reach me where I stand on the opposite shore. Some ten
thousand feet up, above the ice, mist, and clouds, Kagebo peak stands
directly above me. I wonder to myself if somewhere beyond that lies
Shambhala, waiting for the next one worthy of finding it.

Whether simple curiousity, biology, or pure carnal instinct, there is a
wanderer in all of us: Shambhala is the reason. We need the idea of
Shambhala more than Shambhala itself; it represents the most simple yet
most powerful idea that should we strive for it, there is a life better
than this one. What unseen force propelled me into the series of random
events that led me to this moment, I do not know—all I know is that it
feels right to be here, and yet I’ve never felt farther from home. I
make a small duck out of loose stones around my feet—a gesture I don’t
fully understand but one that feels required—and turn back to reach
Julie at Basecamp.

<a href="/images/233.jpg" class="thickbox"
title="Ice Lake and Ducks"><img
src="http://somedaynevercomes.com/images/233t.jpg" /></a><span class="caption">Ice
lake and ducks (note the rain drops on the lens)</span>

I find Julie exactly where I left her. From the smile on her face, I can
tell she feels no regret at not having gone farther. She informs me that
the kitty has not left her lap since I departed.

A Chinese man is drying his socks over the fire—he is one of the
tourists I had passed on his way down as I ascended the trail. He has a
Tibetan guide—one dressed in all black—and says they’re heading back to
Upper Yubeng. Julie and I join them.

Ascending the first ridge is quick and uneventful. We look back at the
glacier before descending to the next valley. A hole in the clouds
reveals a large area of the glacier, I know the Ice Lake rests at point
blocked from our view. At the sight, the Tibetan guide presses his hands
together in prayer form and gazes until the clouds have filled in the
hole. The four of us turn, and descend into Upper Yubeng valley.

If possible, the trail is even worse than earlier in the day. The final
caravan of mules has further turned up the earth, and enough rain has
fallen that standing water now runs down the trail. In places, the mud
is up to our knees and, despite our best efforts, we all find ourselves
slipping and sliding at down the trail. Even the Tibetan finds himself
face down in the mud eventually. I can tell Julie is cold and tired, but
hurrying just isn’t possible as every step has the potential to send you
sliding ten feet downhill, or losing your shoe in a deep vacuum of mud.
Ultimately, she gives up on grace and simply sits down in the mud and
begins sliding downhill back to our guesthouse. Before long, I’m doing
the same.

The following morning, we hire two mules to take us out of Yubeng and
back to where we were dropped four days before. Gone is any pride about
hiking out under our own steam: all of our clothes are wet, as are our
shoes, and Julie’s is missing a sole. We each put on every layer we
have, knowing our body heat will dry the clothes, and fours hours on the
back of a mule will be bone-chilling in this weather with little
blood-flow to warm us.

<a href="/images/241.jpg" class="thickbox"
title="Taking mules out of Yubeng."><img
src="http://somedaynevercomes.com/images/241t.jpg" /></a><span class="caption">Taking
mules out of Yubeng.</span>

From the outer village, we meet two fellow traveler’s who have also just
made it out of Yubeng, and split a minivan with them back to Deqin. It’s
here I find myself standing in a pair of Chinaman shoes, recently
purchased at a store down the street from our hotel to replace the muddy
and wet one’s I’ve worn for four days straight. Julie has on a pair of
knock-off One Star’s, and we set off down the street to look for a pair
of socks.

The following day, we board a dank and crowded bus to take us on the
long, winding road back to Zhongdian. As we rise up and out of Deqin,
the sun breaks through the clouds—the first appearance it’s made in five
days—and, for the first time, we catch an unobstructed view of Melie
Snow Mountain.

<a href="/images/242.jpg" class="thickbox"
title="Melie Snow Mountain"><img
src="http://somedaynevercomes.com/images/242t.jpg" /></a><span class="caption">Melie
Snow Mountain</span>

#### <span id="comment">Comments</span>

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/beyond-shangri-la#c000308"
id="c000308">1</a>  
<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com" rel="nofollow">Kai</a>

Oct 17, 12:42 AM

We’ve had a few comments and emails wondering what happened to the
posts.

The short answer is we had no internet connection during our time in the
mountains. Additionally, coming back from the mountains I came down with
a nasty bout of dysentery that put me out of commission for a few days…

...so we’ve fallen a bit behind. Rest assured, this story will be
completed shortly, and many more to come…

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/beyond-shangri-la#c000309"
id="c000309">2</a>  
<a href="mailto:lconragan@hotmail.com" rel="nofollow">Dad</a>

Oct 17, 02:00 AM

your adventures are turning us now less resilent elders into armchair
voyeurs… much anticipation to experiencing chapter two as long as it’s
you on the bus…

love,

Dad

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/beyond-shangri-la#c000310"
id="c000310">3</a>  
<a href="mailto:clconragan@hotmail.com" rel="nofollow">Carolina</a>

Oct 17, 02:16 AM

I always knew you two would end up in Shangri-La. Thank you for taking
me there, too!

xox

Mom

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/beyond-shangri-la#c000311"
id="c000311">4</a>  
<a href="mailto:dcrane@skyworks.com" rel="nofollow">Kathy Crane</a>

Oct 17, 01:53 PM

Julie, Rooting on your excellent travel adventure. Don’t let your mother
do anything untoward, illegal or embarassing! Be safe and have fun.
Love, Kathy

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/beyond-shangri-la#c000313"
id="c000313">5</a>  
<a href="mailto:japope79@hotmail.com" rel="nofollow">Jenjen</a>

Oct 20, 03:29 AM

I left you a comment yesterday…and it is not here today. I don’t think
that I can even try to recreate that masterpiece.  
It really is a loss to all society.

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/beyond-shangri-la#c000314"
id="c000314">6</a>  
<a href="mailto:diane@galleriatempest.com" rel="nofollow">D Tempest</a>

Oct 20, 11:02 AM

Kai and Julie…  
When you return to the Western world I think you should get jobs on the
Travel Channel doing photography and commentary on the lesser known
parts of the world. Great story.

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/beyond-shangri-la#c000315"
id="c000315">7</a>  
<a href="mailto:kelsoinstitute@com" rel="nofollow">Patricia</a>

Oct 25, 08:28 AM

Dear Julie & Kai,

D Tempest expressed my own thoughts! Kai, you are a born reporter, you
observe the relevant details and put them in narrative context. You are
curious. Both of you take marvellous photographs. You are both intrepid
and roll with the punches. Let’s discuss the possibilities when you
return.

Has Marty arrived yet? For everybody’s sake, don’t let her out of your
sight!

Missing you but am thrilled over what you are doing and learning.

Much love to you and Marty, Patricia

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/beyond-shangri-la#c000316"
id="c000316">8</a>  
<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com" rel="nofollow">Julie</a>

Oct 25, 12:05 PM

Yes, My mom has arrived and is doing well. We haven’t let her out of out
sight, except for her daily massage. There is talk of importing a Thai
masseuse back to California…

Today is Kai’s Birthday, and we plan to celebrate in both hemispheres
(for 2 days).

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/beyond-shangri-la#c000317"
id="c000317">9</a>  
<a href="http://www.cruxstudio.com" rel="nofollow">Andrea Katz</a>

Oct 26, 05:53 AM

<span class="caps">HAPPY</span> <span class="caps">BIRTHDAY</span>,
KAI!!!!!

Hope you get to do something special for your birthday. Oh, wait, you’ve
been doing something special for the last 8 months!

Have a great one!

xxx  
annie

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/beyond-shangri-la#c000318"
id="c000318">10</a>  
<a href="mailto:sestes@bellsports.com" rel="nofollow">Sean</a>

Oct 28, 12:51 PM

Santa Cruz isn’t the same w/o you guys, hope to see you soon!

Happy belated b-day Kai!

Safe travels,

-Sean

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/beyond-shangri-la#c000319"
id="c000319">11</a>  
<a href="mailto:christina_kelso@hotmail.com"
rel="nofollow">Christina</a>

Oct 31, 06:18 AM

Happy birhtday, Kai! Sounds like you are having a good time as always….
Aunt Marty, how’s life in a sarong and nothing else? Bet you don’t
hardly even need shoes now, Julie!

I’m moving to a Shangri-la of sorts down south nearish Joshua Tree, so
you’ll have somewhere exotic to visit when you return. Rock climbing!
And Kai, I still want to take a surfing lesson from you, but I am going
out for my first time to attempt to surf with a lifeguard, John, at
Stinson Beach this Friday. At last, the actualization of a life-long
dream. Someday is coming! You’d like him; he’s travelled as much as you
two have… totally works overtime days just to add weeks to his stays in
Thailand, Argentina, etc.

<span class="caps">HAPPY</span> HALLOWEEN!

Love, Christina

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/beyond-shangri-la#c000321"
id="c000321">12</a>  
<a href="mailto:emilykavila@yahoo.com" rel="nofollow">Emily</a>

Nov 2, 03:11 AM

Such a marvelous read, as always. The rain has finally come to Santa
Cruz and I am in agreement with Julie – a warm and fuzzy cat in the lap
beats walking in the rain.

I love the pictures you post and how they illustrate each part of the
story one step further than the dialog. I always have trouble with the
light meter on my digital camera, you’ll have to explain how you get
such great pics with light & dark aspects in balance. My favorite pics
from this post are the prayer flags, the steaming soup bowls, and the
final shot of the mysterious mountain.

I think the disconnect to our meat is a problem that is just going to
get worse. Even a foodie like me who has eaten lots of strange animal
parts gets queesy when i watch chris butchering a whole duck or fileting
a whole fish. You have a much more thoughtful eating experience once you
see your food from life to plate. I wish more people could.

Till next time,  
Em

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/beyond-shangri-la#c000322"
id="c000322">13</a>  
<a href="mailto:ccarter5@dc.rr.com" rel="nofollow">Aunt Linda(W)</a>

Nov 6, 03:36 AM

What wonderful writing, Kai. I can just see Julie with the cat in her
lap. Where to next?

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/beyond-shangri-la#c000323"
id="c000323">14</a>  
<a href="mailto:leahdeffenbaugh@yahoo.com" rel="nofollow">Leah</a>

Nov 6, 09:12 AM

Wow guys, Kai, your writing has grown, the chronicles while, amazing
this whole story through, are now so real, I feel almost like you have
taken us all with you.

I look forward to every new passage. Keep us posted! Missing you two…

Leah

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/beyond-shangri-la#c000324"
id="c000324">15</a>  
<a href="mailto:jesse@cruxstudio.com" rel="nofollow">Jesus Gatos</a>

Nov 14, 12:32 PM

Ah, an even later Happy Birthday Kai!

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/beyond-shangri-la#c000431"
id="c000431">16</a>  
<a href="mailto:nappy@bonap.com" rel="nofollow">Napoleon Bonaparte</a>

Nov 24, 06:45 AM

Keep up the good work, Kai! Your doing so great.  
I love you so much from the bottom of my heart

#### Locations

- [Borneo](http://somedaynevercomes.com/category/Borneo/)
- [China](http://somedaynevercomes.com/category/China/)
- [Hawai’i](http://somedaynevercomes.com/category/Hawaii/)
- [Hong Kong](http://somedaynevercomes.com/category/Hong-Kong/)
- [Indonesia](http://somedaynevercomes.com/category/Indonesia/)
- [Malaysia](http://somedaynevercomes.com/category/Malaysia/)
- [Philippines](http://somedaynevercomes.com/category/Philippines/)
- [Singapore](http://somedaynevercomes.com/category/Singapore/)
- [Thailand](http://somedaynevercomes.com/category/Thailand/)

#### Topics

- [Books](http://somedaynevercomes.com/category/Books/)
- [Planning](http://somedaynevercomes.com/category/planning/)
- [Site News](http://somedaynevercomes.com/category/Site-News/)

### Recent Entries

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/where-have-we-been"
rel="bookmark">Where have we been?</a>  
<span class="date">Thursday October 11, 2007</span> / <a
href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/where-have-we-been#comment"
class="comments_invite">Comments</a> \[6\]

<a
href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/the-philippines-and-idc-training"
rel="bookmark">The Philippines and IDC Training</a>  
<span class="date">Sunday June 24, 2007</span> / <a
href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/the-philippines-and-idc-training#comment"
class="comments_invite">Comments</a> \[9\]

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/forward"
rel="bookmark">Forward</a>  
<span class="date">Thursday May 24, 2007</span> /
<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/forward#comment"
class="comments_invite">Comments</a> \[15\]

<a
href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/living-and-diving-in-semporna"
rel="bookmark">Living and Diving in Semporna</a>  
<span class="date">Thursday February 1, 2007</span> / <a
href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/living-and-diving-in-semporna#comment"
class="comments_invite">Comments</a> \[27\]

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/semporna-revisited"
rel="bookmark">Semporna Revisited</a>  
<span class="date">Sunday December 10, 2006</span> / <a
href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/semporna-revisited#comment"
class="comments_invite">Comments</a> \[21\]

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/books/travel-reading-list"
rel="bookmark">Travel Reading List</a>  
<span class="date">Thursday November 23, 2006</span> /
<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/books/travel-reading-list#comment"
class="comments_invite">Comments</a> \[8\]

<a
href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/throw-momma-from-the-train"
rel="bookmark">Throw Momma From the Train</a>  
<span class="date">Tuesday November 14, 2006</span> / <a
href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/throw-momma-from-the-train#comment"
class="comments_invite">Comments</a> \[9\]

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/beyond-shangri-la"
rel="bookmark">Beyond Shangri-La</a>  
<span class="date">Monday October 30, 2006</span> /
<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/beyond-shangri-la#comment"
class="comments_invite">Comments</a> \[16\]

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/catching-up"
rel="bookmark">Catching Up</a>  
<span class="date">Tuesday September 26, 2006</span> /
<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/catching-up#comment"
class="comments_invite">Comments</a> \[9\]

<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/yixing"
rel="bookmark">Yixing</a>  
<span class="date">Monday September 18, 2006</span> /
<a href="http://somedaynevercomes.com/article/yixing#comment"
class="comments_invite">Comments</a> \[14\]

##### <img src="/media/interface/rss-icon.gif"
style="vertical-align: middle; margin: -1px 4px 3px 0" width="16"
height="16" />Subscribe Via:  [RSS](http://www.somedaynevercomes.com/rss/ "xml_feed_title") or [Atom](http://www.somedaynevercomes.com/atom/ "xml_feed_title")

### Latest Photos

 

All Photos and Content © Kai Conragan and Julie Brookman. All Rights
Reserved.  
If you are interested in using any photos or stories from this website,
please don't hesitate to [contact
us](mailto:info@somedaynevercomes.com "Send Us An Email"), we're quite
friendly.
